New Ground Vehicle Tech Draws Attention at Modern Day Marine
Robert Billard
Military.com

Oshkosh Defense is highlighting the ROGUE-Fires autonomous fires platform and upgraded MTVR at Modern Day Marine 2026, giving Marines new tools.
Oshkosh Defense is giving Marines a close-up look at new expeditionary power and mobility solutions this week at Modern Day Marine, tools built to help units disperse, maneuver and stay effective in contested maritime environments. The company featured two platforms during the April 28-30 event in the Washington, D.C. area. Both draw on Oshkosh’s proven designs to address the demands of distributed operations where traditional support may be limited.
ROGUE-Fires Brings Land-Based Sea Denial Capability
The Remotely Operated Ground Unit for Expeditionary Fires, or ROGUE-Fires, pairs the Navy/Marine Expeditionary Ship Interdiction System (NMESIS) with an autonomous platform built on the battle-tested Oshkosh JLTV. This setup delivers expeditionary, land-based fires that support sea denial and naval campaigns while operating deep in austere conditions.
Marines can position the system forward, maintain survivability and still contribute to larger maritime fights without relying on fixed bases or heavy logistics tails.
U.S. Marines execute notional fire missions with a Navy-Marine Expeditionary Ship Interdiction System on Camp Hansen, Okinawa, Japan, Sept. 5, 2025. The NMESIS is a ground-based offensive anti-ship missile system, used in sea denial and littoral protection to offer a highly mobile and rapidly deployable island defense solution. This NMESIS is a 3rd Marine Division asset. (U.S. Marine Corps photo by Cpl. Lucas Lu)
MTVR 4x4 Upgrades Boost Logistics and Mobility
The modernized Medium Tactical Vehicle Replacement (MTVR) 4x4 now comes with exportable power and enhanced lighting. These targeted improvements strengthen the truck’s core jobs—logistical support, operational mobility and transportability—while extending its service life in dispersed settings.
The upgrades give Marines more flexibility on the move and help keep vehicles relevant longer in high-tempo, distributed operations.
Enhanced MTVR 4x4 on display at Modern Day Marine 2026, equipped with exportable power and enhanced lighting. (Photo courtesy of Oshkosh Defense)
Mobility Keeps Marines Ready in Contested Environments
Pat Williams, chief program officer at Oshkosh Defense, stated:
Mobility enables how Marines fight and sustain combat power forward, and Oshkosh brings that capability to every platform we deliver
“We develop robust, versatile platforms and provide the life cycle support needed to keep them ready, relevant, and effective in contested environments. From autonomous fires to modernized mobility and integrated sustainment, our approach connects capability with long-term performance in the field.”
Oshkosh Defense, an Oshkosh Corporation business, continues to focus on integrating advanced technology with field-proven vehicles and full lifecycle support.

Marine Amphibious Combat Vehicles To Get Missile-Swatting Active Protection Systems
Joseph Trevithick
The War Zone

The U.S. Marine Corps is working toward adding an active protection system (APS) capability to its fleet of 8×8 wheeled Amphibious Combat Vehicles (ACV). APSs on the market today are generally designed to defeat incoming anti-tank guided missiles and other infantry anti-armor weapons. However, many of them also have the inherent ability to down incoming drones or are being modified to address this ever-growing threat, something TWZ previously explored in a detailed feature. The Marines are already exploring additional options to improve the ACV’s defenses against uncrewed aerial attackers, as well as other upgrades to the vehicles.
Chris Melkonian, the Marine Corps’ current Program Manager for Advanced Amphibious Assault (PM AAA), talked today about APS for the ACV fleet and other plans for those vehicles at the annual Modern Day Marine exposition, at which TWZ is in attendance.
The Marines currently field two ACV variants, the baseline personnel carrier type (ACV-P) and a version optimized for command and control tasks (ACV-C). The service is in the process of acquiring two more variants, one armed with a turreted 30mm cannon (ACV-30) and a recovery vehicle version fitted with a crane and other specialized features (ACV-R). The Corps is presently targeting 2028 for reaching initial operational capability with the ACV-30 and the ACV-R.
The Marines view the entire ACV family as central to its ability to conduct amphibious operations, as well as for providing additional lethality and other support to forces once ashore. At present, the service is planning to acquire a total fleet of 608 ACVs, consisting of 389 ACV-Ps, 33 ACV-Cs, 152 ACV-30s, and 34 ACV-Rs. Prime contractor BAE Systems has also proposed additional variants, including ones configured for electronic warfare or dedicated to the counter-drone role.
In 2018, the Corps announced it had selected the ACV as the replacement for its Cold War-era tracked Assault Amphibious Vehicle (AAV) family. The service announced the formal retirement of the AAV last fall.
There are already “things that we’re doing today to make the ACV family vehicles even more capable,” Melkonian said at Modern Day Marine. “The analogy I use is the ACV that Marines are using today is not the ACV that they’re going to use in the future.”
This includes an “active protection system,” he added. “We’re working with the vendor to mature that capability. We’re going to move that right into production.”
Recently released budget documents also say that the Marines are asking for $28.35 million in Fiscal Year 2027 for “Ancillary Equipment” for the ACV fleet, which “is primarily attributed to the procurement of Special Mission Kits for the Active Protective System (APS).” Those same documents further note that the “funding provides APS production kits, integration kits, installation labor, countermeasures, and spares for 21 ACV-P vehicles and will add a new defensive capability to existing vehicles.”
However, neither Melkonian nor the budget documents have said what specific type of APS the ACVs are now in line to get, or when. TWZ has reached out to the service for more information.
This is certainly not the U.S. military’s first foray into APSs for armored vehicles. The U.S. Army previously integrated the Israeli-designed and combat-proven Trophy APS onto a portion of its M1 Abrams tanks.
That service is also now in the process of adding another Israeli-developed APS, Iron Fist, onto at least some of its Bradley Fighting Vehicles. The Army’s version of Iron Fist, now designated as the XM251, is also set to be fitted to next-generation M1E3 tanks and a planned replacement for the Bradley family, tentatively designated the XM30.
There are other APS designs on the market today that the Marines could have chosen for integration onto the ACV, as well.
As noted, APSs available today are generally designed to neutralize anti-tank guided missiles and other infantry anti-armor weapons. They typically achieve this through the use of ‘hard-kill’ projectiles designed to destroy targets either using an explosive warhead or via the sheer force of impact. Hard-kill APSs use a mixture of sensors, which can include small-form-factor radars and electro-optical/infrared cameras, to cue those interceptors to engage incoming threats.
From when the Marines first announced the selection of BAE’s ACV back in 2018, TWZ has noted that an APS could provide the vehicles with a valuable extra layer of defense against anti-armor missiles and rockets. More capable infantry anti-armor weapons continue to be developed and proliferate globally. Those threats present additional challenges in beach landing scenarios for amphibious vehicles like the ACV, which move much more slowly in the water than they do on land.
The threat that drones pose, and to armored vehicles in particular, which TWZ has been sounding the alarm on for years, has also now been fully rammed into the public consciousness. This is thanks largely to the stark visuals of tanks and other vehicles being attacked by uncrewed aerial systems (UAS) that emerge on a daily basis now from the ongoing conflict in Ukraine.
Reposting this video showing a Russian T-80BVM tank with a roof screen and deploying smoke surviving multiple FPV hits and misses.
— Rob Lee (@RALee85) December 13, 2023
A Ukrainian drone from the 79th Air Assault Brigade drops a 40mm HEDP grenade on a Russian UR-77 Meteorit, causing a catastrophic payload explosion.  
— OSINTtechnical (@Osinttechnical) August 14, 2023
Drones are an ever-more common and still evolving threat across a growing number of conflict zones worldwide. First-person view (FPV) type kamikaze drones controlled via fiber optic cable have become a particular point of concern, since they are impervious to radio frequency jamming. In turn, this has already prompted the development of a variety of active and passive countermeasures for armored and unarmored vehicles. We will come back to this in a moment.
TWZ has previously laid out a detailed case specifically for using hard-kill APSs to provide added counter-drone defense for armored vehicles. The Israeli firms behind Trophy and Iron Fist have both now notably demonstrated the ability of their respective systems to defeat uncrewed aerial threats in certain envelopes, as can be seen in the videos below. It should be noted that Trophy, Iron Fist, and other hard-kill APSs have a limited number of engagement opportunities and are not really intended to defeat large volumes of threats simultaneously, such as drones attacking in swarms.
When it comes to the APS capability now planned for Marine ACVs, “that is not going to be the end-all, be-all,” Melkonian, the Marine Corps’ Program Manager, said today. “We’re constantly looking at what the next generation of APS is and how we can get that onto the platform in a lightweight form factor.”
Melkonian also highlighted other potential counter-drone and more general survivability upgrades that could be on the horizon for ACV. This could include the integration of directed energy weapons and some form of added overhead protection. Top-down attacks on vehicles where the armor is typically thinnest can be very threatening, in general.
As an aside, the Army has already been working to acquire hundreds of Top Attack Protection (TAP) add-on armor systems for installation on its M1 Abrams tanks and other armored vehicles. This reflects an expanding global trend in the integration of so-called ‘cope cage’ type armor around the turrets and other areas of armored and unarmored vehicles, primarily to protect against drone attacks. The first cope cages appeared on Russian tanks in the lead-up to the all-out invasion of Ukraine in 2022. This kind of armor does present tradeoffs, including the potential to interfere with other capabilities, such as APSs.
Improved “situational awareness, that’s kind of a gateway to counter-UAS, in terms of the ability to sense your environment,” Melkonian also noted today while talking about other possible upgrades for the ACV. “Take all that video on board and then be able to feed that into [a] counter-UAS system.”
Melkonian highlighted several other areas of interest where the Marines are looking to improve the ACV’s capabilities. His list included things like reducing the vehicle’s signatures to make it harder for enemies to spot, improving its mobility while in the water, and upgrades to just help keep everything inside dry.
“Marines operate in very humid, very difficult environments,” he explained. “The ability to dehumidify the vehicles is a critical enabler, being able to improve the maintenance strategy and keeping [sic] those components running for as long as they need to.”
Broadly speaking, the Marines are interested in new “lightweight solutions, advanced technology, and anything that’s going to be marinized. It must be marinized,” he added. “I can’t tell you how many solutions have been picked, and that’s one of the first questions we ask, and sometimes the solutions are designed for a marinized environment, sometimes they’re not. Marines go where no one else goes, and we’ve got to be able to make sure that our capabilities can support their needs.”
The core marinization requirement will apply to the APS integration just like any other upgrades for Marine ACVs.
Altogether, the addition of active protection systems looks to be just one important upgrade for the Marine Corps’ ACV fleet now on the horizon.
UPDATE: 5/1/2026
The U.S. Marine Corps has now provided the following statement regarding plans to integrate an APS onto the ACV:
“The Marine Corps continues to conduct market research on potential solutions to add active protection system capabilities to the ACV and will announce further contracting actions when appropriate.”

US combatant chiefs want more amphibious ready groups, Marine commandant says
Riley Ceder
Military Times

The four-star generals and admirals who lead U.S. military commands have all requested the support of amphibious ready groups and Marine Expeditionary Units, according to the highest-ranking officer in the U.S. Marine Corps.
U.S. Marine Corps Commandant Gen. Eric Smith told audience members at Modern Day Marine in Washington on Thursday that the demand for ARG-MEUs has exceeded the 3.0 presence he previously called for.
"I won't say how many of the ARG-MEUs our combat commanders asked for, but it is well north of three," he said. "Like double that."
Calls for ARG-MEUs are coming from the U.S. military's Southern Command, European Command, U.S. Central Command and U.S. Africa Command.
A 3.0 presence indicates a three-ship ARG-MEU deployed at all times: one out of the East Coast, one out of the West Coast and the 31st MEU delivering periodic deployments out of Okinawa, Japan.
Currently, the 22nd MEU is participating in Operation Southern Spear and the 31st MEU is in the Middle East in support of Operation Epic Fury.
The 11th MEU is reportedly en route toward the Middle East to support Operation Epic Fury, but as of this week was conducting routine patrols around the southern Philippines.
Smith labeled ARG-MEUs the most flexible tool in the Defense Department inventory, providing humanitarian assistance, non-combatant evacuation operations and key strike capabilities.
The ARG-MEUs in recent years have been more relevant than ever before, Smith added, but sustaining the pace proved difficult. This struggle emphasized the Marine Corps' and Navy's need to return to a permanent 3.0 ARG-MEU presence.
"This is our number one priority and it remains my personal north star as a commandant," Smith said.
The Navy's current inventory of amphibious ships, however, is not enough to address this goal, according to Smith.
The Navy holds an inventory of 32 amphibious warfare ships, but half of the fleet is in poor condition and poorly maintained, according to a 2024 report from the U.S. Government Accountability Office.
A defense official told Military Times in August 2025 that the readiness rate of amphibious ships had dropped to 41% despite the Marine Corps previously stating that the amphibious readiness rate needed to remain at 80% or higher to complete missions.
To remedy the ongoing issue, the Marine Corps is focusing on optimizing maintenance schedules, investing in service life extensions and procuring new ships.
Expeditionary Warfare Director Brig. Gen. Lee Meyer told reporters Tuesday at the Modern Day Marine exposition that the Navy recently completed a study on Wasp-class amphibious assault ships, which led to the service life extension of the USS Wasp.
Meyer said the Navy and Marine Corps would also study other amphibious assault ships to see if they could extend their lifespan, with the services expecting a completed study of amphibious dock landing ships in the next several days.
The U.S. Navy and Marine Corps recently partnered to launch the Amphibious Force Readiness Board, which will seek to tackle the best pathway forward to maintain, modernize and build the service's amphibious fleet to prioritize availability.
The board wasn't a study group, according to Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Daryl Caudle, who spoke at Modern Day Marine Thursday. It was a platform to produce action, he said.
"Far too long amphibious readiness has absorbed the cumulative effects of aging systems, deferred maintenance, supply chain, friction, workforce shortages and high operational tempo," said Caudle. "So, we are attacking the problem directly."

New Cruise Missile-Armed MV-75 Tiltrotor Concept For The Marines Shown Off
Joseph Trevithick
The War Zone

Bell has put forward a new concept for a next-generation tiltrotor aircraft armed with anti-ship cruise missiles and other munitions for the U.S. Marine Corps. The design is based on what has been newly named the MV-75A Cheyenne II, which is in development for the U.S. Army. This comes as the Corps has said “everything is on the table” as it starts to formulate a new vision for what will succeed its AH-1Z Viper and UH-1Y Venom helicopters.
A model of the new armed MV-75 concept for the Marines is currently on display at the annual Modern Day Marine conference in Washington, D.C., at which TWZ is in attendance. It is painted in the markings of Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 267 (HMLA-267), a unit currently equipped with AH-1Z and UH-1Y helicopters, which perform attack and armed utility mission sets, respectively.
The model’s most immediately eye-catching details are its armament. This includes two stub wings, each with a single pylon, mounted on either side of the top of the forward fuselage, situated between the main wing and the cockpit. A Naval Strike Missile (NSM), a stealthy anti-ship cruise missile with secondary land capability, is loaded on the left side. The Marine Corps is already fielding NSM in a ground-launched configuration. The missile is also in U.S. Navy service as a sea-launched weapon, as it was originally designed.
On the right side of the model, there is a pair of missiles, which are intended to reflect the Marine Corps’ forthcoming Precision Attack Strike Munition (PASM) capability. PASM is a version of L3Harris’ Red Wolf, a small, lower-cost cruise missile that you can read more about here.
It is interesting to note that the missiles on the model also look similar in broad strokes to Lockheed Martin’s Common Multi-Mission Trucks (CMMT, pronounced ‘comet’). Red Wolf and CMMT are just a few examples of a growing field of missile-shaped ‘air vehicles,’ many of which can be readily reconfigurable to perform a host of different tasks, including acting as a kinetic munition, an expendable electronic warfare system, or a decoy. Designs in this general category increasingly blur the line between uncrewed aerial systems, especially longer-range kamikaze drones, and traditional cruise missiles.
The stub wings could be used to carry other stores, such as AGM-114 Hellfire missiles or Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System II (APKWS II) laser-guided rockets, per Bell.
Two additional launchers are attached to the sides of each of the main landing gear sponsons. These are intended to depict launch tubes for the ALTIUS-700M loitering munition or something similar, according to Bell. This is a general category of uncrewed systems now commonly referred to as launched effects. There are also five apertures on either side of the fuselage through which additional munitions or drones could be fired via Common Launch Tube (CLT).
“There are some restrictions of [sic] where you can place them [launchers and/or pylons for munitions and other stores], because anything that’s forward firing would need to have the clearance to get past the [rotor] tip path plane and [have] it fit inside the fuselage,” Bill Hendricks, Senior Strategy Manager at Bell, told our Eric Tegler on the show floor at Modern Day Marine. “Our assumption is that, should the Marine Corps pursue something like this, they would want to be able to employ ordnance while in airplane mode with the nacelles forward. So the weapons that we have currently on that conceptual model would be something that you could fire in airplane mode.”
The design also has a three-barrel Gatling-type cannon or machine gun in a turret under the nose. What is depicted is in line with the M197 20mm Gatling-type cannon found on Marine AH-1Zs today. An improved, lightweight evolution of that cannon, the XM915, was also expected to arm the Army’s now-canceled Future Armed Reconnaissance Aircraft (FARA).
The model of MV-75 derivative for the Marines also has a sensor turret in the nose with a pair of large apertures in front, which typically reflect electro-optical and/or infrared video cameras inside. It has a retractable in-flight refueling probe, as well. The Army’s plans for in-flight refueling capability for the Cheyenne II are evolving. This is also a feature expected to be found on a special operations version of the MV-75.
Compared to the AH-1Z and UH-1Y, with this tiltrotor design, “now you have additional range, you have additional speed, more operational flexibility, you can cover more area with one platform,” Bell’s Hendricks highlighted at the Modern Day Marine show.
“If that was something that we were asked to look at, then we can certainly explore that,” he added when asked about the possibility of extra fuel carried externally for even greater reach. “That’s not something that we’ve looked at with that conceptual design, because an MV-75 variant in that configuration with internal fuel would still have a range, after a short takeoff or a running takeoff, in excess of 1,000 nautical miles.”
As a single replacement for the AH-1Z and UH-1Y, an armed MV-75 derivative would come in a larger and more expensive package, which would present additional tradeoffs for the Marines to consider. As an aside, the service is also now in the process of charting a separate course to a replacement for the MV-22 Osprey.
As noted, the Marine Corps has now begun to lay out a new vision for what will succeed its AH-1Z and UH-1Y helicopters. The service has previously told TWZ that this effort, currently known as Future Attack Strike (FASt), will also help fill certain capability gaps created by the retirement of the AV-8B Harrier jump jet and legacy F/A-18C/D Hornet fighters. The Marines have long said the main replacements for the AV-8Bs and F/A-18C/Ds will be variants of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.
“So, right now, for FASt, everything is on the table. Manned, unmanned, optionally-piloted, I think, are good avenues to take a look at. Conventional rotary-wing, tiltrotor. Maybe there’s something else out there,” Col. Scott Shadforth said in response to a question, also from Eric Tegler, while speaking today at Modern Day Marine. “There is no steadfast, solid response to that.”
Shadforth is currently Director of the Expeditionary Maritime Aviation-Advanced Development Team (XMA-ADT) within Naval Air Systems Command (NAVAIR). XMA-ADT focused on rapid prototyping and experimentation to help refine future Marine Corps aviation requirements in cooperation with the Navy.
“So, as we look at unmanned, manned-unmanned teaming, air-launched effects, all the capabilities to help extend the range of various assault support or attack type platforms, all of those are on the table for consideration by the Marine Corps at this time,” he added.
In the meantime, the Marines are notably working to integrate a standoff strike capability onto the AH-1Z through the aforementioned PASM, which will open up significant new operational possibilities. The service has also been looking at ways to expand the roles and missions of the UH-1Y, to include anti-submarine warfare capability and acting as an airborne drone controller.
It is important to note that this is not the first time Bell has shown models and renderings of armed variations of this design, originally branded as the V-280 Valor, that could perform sea control and other maritime mission sets. This has included versions with internal bays, as well as pylons under the wings and ones mounted on the sides of the rear end of the fuselage.
From 'Hook: Bell showed this seriously armed variant of its MV-75/FLRAA it is offering for the USMC's AURA, and reminding the Navy of its paid-for engineering for FVL-MS pic.twitter.com/fs9r2m7IxT
— Brian Everstine (@beverstine) August 25, 2025
Previous navalized concepts have also included folding main wings and rotors, similar in form and function to those features on the V-22 Osprey tiltrotor, to help reduce the aircraft’s physical footprint when operating from ships. Bell has said previously that the ‘stowed’ configuration of the V-280 could be small enough to fit inside the hangars on Arleigh Burke class destroyers, as well as those on larger naval vessels.
Bell has also pitched navalized V-280/MV-75 designs in the past, paired together with its uncrewed V-247 Vigilant tiltrotor drone. This has included previous proposals specifically aimed at meeting future Marine Corps aviation requirements, which have evolved significantly in recent years.
“I can see conceptually, where the Navy could, if this is what they wanted, adopt like this to [meet] their sea control, or ASW [anti-submarine warfare], or ASuW [anti-surface warfare] mission set [sic], because of the additional range that it gives you,” Bell’s Hendricks said when asked about whether this concept could also be relevant to that service’s needs. “It would outperform the speed and range of an H-60, and so that would give them more operational reach.”
In recent years, the Navy has been exploring options for replacements for its MH-60R and MH-60S Seahawk helicopters, as well as its MQ-8C Fire Scout drone helicopters. However, at least in the near term, the service seems to be leaning more toward a major evolution of the Seahawk platform rather than an entirely new platform.
The Marine Corps has made clear that all options are currently on the table, including a tiltrotor like Bell’s MV-75 or a derivative thereof, as the service works to firm up requirements for a replacement for its AH-1Z and UH-1Y helicopters.

Marines will update land warfare doctrine as they prep for near-peer, drone-driven fight
Meghann Myers
Defense One

Officials previewed Ground Combat Element 2040 plan at the Modern Day Marine conference.
The Marine Corps is halfway through a decade-long project to re-imagine itself for the next generation of warfare, refocusing itself as a seagoing service with Force Design 2030.
But the Marines aren’t leaving land warfare behind, and will release an updated approach to ground combat in the coming weeks, Col. Erick Clark, director of future operations and plans, said Tuesday during the Modern Day Marine conference in Washington, D.C.
Ground Combat Element 2040 follows the service’s latest aviation plan, released in February. 
The framework will “make sure that we are staying focused on the ground combat element, to make sure that beyond some of the capabilities that were rolled out in Force Design, specifically focused on our Marine littoral regiments and other capabilities that would enhance the [Marine Air-Ground Task Force], we wanted to make sure that we were not losing track of our core capabilities to conduct offensive, defensive, and expeditionary operations within the ground combat element,” said Maj. Gen. Kyle Ellison, who commands 3rd Marine Division, said during a panel previewing the new plan.
Experts and recent national defense strategies have identified China as the U.S.’s most likely future opponent, though the Trump administration’s most recent doctrine seeks to cocoon the U.S. in the Western Hemisphere.
“When you envision the type of fight we're preparing for, where we face a peer or near-peer adversary in a high-end fight, where all domains are contested—and then in some, the adversary will have an advantage—that's not a battlefield we have fought on, at least since I've been in the Marine Corps,” said Maj. Gen. Farrell Sullivan, who commands 2nd Marine Division.
While Force Design 2030 has been all about evolving the Corps past the Global War on Terror, the war in Ukraine has provided concrete lessons for what combat may look like in the next U.S. ground war.
“I don't want to have a bias toward that conflict and say that the future will look exactly like that, because it won't, but we would be criminal not to be paying attention to that,” Sullivan said. 
Like the other services, the Marine Corps is seeking to quickly build up its counter-unmanned systems capabilities, anticipating that any conflict is going to include a heavy dose of drone warfare. 
“Ground-based air defense at echelon is something that we are very much focused on, based off of the UAS threat right now that you're seeing on the modern day battlefield,” said Maj. Gen. Jason Morris, who directs the operations division at Marine Corps headquarters. “And while Force Design did field a number of systems…there is still a shortfall for maneuver coverage at the [ground combat and logistics] level, and so we are taking action to field dismounted, organic counter-UAS kits to our lower level formations, infantry battalions, [combat logistics battalions], to bases and stations to make sure that we can handle the Group 1, Group 2 UAS threats.”
The service is taking feedback from that effort to refine what those units need in counter-UAS systems, in an effort to speed up the acquisition of something closer to the best solution. 
“This is a work in progress,” Morris said. “We're building a plane as we're flying it, but we can't wait on the standard acquisitions program timeline for things to be fielded in five to seven years, because things are changing on the battlefield so much and so quickly that we've got to be able to adapt, to adapt faster than that, in the weeks and months timeframe.”

Pacific Marines will be first to test-drive new pilot-optional helicopter
Hope Hodge Seck
The Marine Corps Times

The biggest of the aircraft planned for the Marines’ arsenal of unmanned flying logistics trucks is expected to be put through its paces at one of the Corps’ littoral regiments in the Pacific next year, officials said Tuesday.
The service is “aggressively pursuing” an operational demo in 2027 for the Aerial Logistics Connector, or ALC, said Lt. Col. Ben Link, head of vertical takeoff and landing concepts for the Marines’ Cunningham Group, an aviation-focused innovation unit.
“We will fight with prototypes and rapidly learn and refine our requirements,” Link told an audience at the Modern Day Marine exposition in Washington, D.C. “ALC’s mission is clear and critical — to provide autonomous airborne logistics to sustain the stand-in force. ALC is a key component to all-domain logistics, which enables [the Department of Defense], ensuring our distributed units remain supplied, lethal and combat-ready.”
Last June, Airbus and the Alexandria, Va.-based Parry Labs announced a partnership to develop a drone version of the UH-72 Lakota helicopter for the ALC program. This month, the team, working alongside L3Harris Technologies and Shield AI, announced the aircraft’s fourth autonomous flight test, also saying they demonstrated the relevant technologies aboard an Airbus H-145 Multi-Role Light-Twin helicopter, “executing autonomous flight while avoiding obstacles and safely landing in conditions that mirror real-world environments.”
Near Earth Autonomy is also working on ALC, conducting an autonomous test flight last year on a Leonardo AW139 helicopter.
ALC is not to be confused with Medium Aerial Resupply Vehicle — Expeditionary Logistics (MARV-EL), a similarly sized autonomous logistics chopper. This month, Near Earth and Lockheed Martin received separate prototyping contracts or MARV-EL.
In fact, the Marine Corps is likely still tinkering with its concepts for the aircraft.
“They’re very complimentary, very similar requirements, but we’re taking a deep look at where we are today and where that system needs to go,” Link said. “As it stands today, MARV-EL is designed to be an organic logistics air vehicle owned and operated by the ground force. ALC is general support to the [Marine Air-Ground Task Force], owned and operated by the aviation side.”
Nonetheless, the plan to push ALC out to one of the Marine Littoral Regiments in the Pacific for tinkering shows a growing interest in using these units for testing, experimentation and concept development. In 2025, leaders of the Okinawa-based 12th MLR hailed the utility of the autonomous low-profile vessel (ALPV), a logistics platform based on a narco-sub that was sent to them for testing. In planning guidance released last October, Marine Corps Commandant Gen. Eric Smith announced that the semi-submersibles would be transitioning to a program of record for the Corps based on their trial period in the Pacific.
Link said the Corps wanted both of the prime vendors for ALC to provide a flying prototype for the demo.
“Very likely, they will not be completely autonomous aircraft, as we envision to achieve by the end of the middle tier of acquisition,” he said, adding the service was now two years into a five-year acquisition program. “What we’re looking to pull is two aircraft at a minimum, one from each vendor, that’s optionally piloted, so we can run a full mission autonomy experiment with our MLR OCONUS and really put it in [the Marines’] hands … so we really are looking to learn a lot from their perspective on what they need, as one of the use cases for ALC.”
As the Marines illustrated in a Venn diagram chart at the conference, the service is developing ALC, its large autonomous logistics platform, alongside four other autonomous aircraft projects: MUX-TACAIR, a collaborative combat aircraft designed to fly alongside manned fighters; Future Attack Strike (FASt), an attack platform that may be optionally piloted and will also be optimized for manned-unmanned teaming; MUX-MALE, the Corps’ MQ-9 Reaper program for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; and Organic ISR, a future Group 3 UAS that will “provide persistent overhead coverage for Marines on the ground, in addition to executing whatever missions that the [aviation combat element] requires to remain relevant in the future,” Link said.
If that’s confusing now, it’s likely to become only more so in coming years.
“Fast forward a few years, and you look at emerging capabilities, and the lines start to blur,” said Maj. Michael Zbonack, a planner with Future Concepts UAS. " … The end result that we’re driving for is a high-low mix of a family of systems delivering a wide range of capabilities to support the MAGTF."

Marine commandant: Every combatant command has requested an amphibious ready group
Meghann Myers
Defense One

The demand is about twice as high as the Marine Corps’ goal of three deployed at any given time, Gen. Eric Smith said Thursday.
The Marine Corps has long insisted that it needs enough amphibious ships to keep three ready groups deployed at all times, but the demand for those units is much higher than that, the service’s commandant said Thursday.
Every combatant commander—from U.S. Central Command to Africa to Southern—has requested an ARG with a Marine Expeditionary Unit on board, Gen. Eric Smith told an audience at the Modern Day Marine conference in Washington, D.C. 
“I won't say how many of the ARG-MEUs our combat commanders ask for, but it is well north of three,” he said. “I'll just say that it is well north of three—like double that.”
The 22nd MEU is off the coast of South America supporting Operation Southern Spear, the administration’s anti-drug trafficking effort, while the 31st MEU is in the Middle East supporting the U.S. blockade of Iran.
They’ll soon be joined by the 11th MEU, Smith said, which just finished typhoon disaster response in the Northern Mariana Islands.
“I just wish I had more of them to offer,” he said.
Having an ARG-MEU constantly off both coasts of the U.S. and in the Indo-Pacific is the goal, and while the Corps has the Marines to do it, it does not have the ships. 
Out of the Navy’s 32 amphibious ships, only about half are in good enough condition to keep deploying, according to a 2024 Government Accountability Office report. The Navy would need to have nine in deployable condition at any given time to get to the 3.0 presence the commandant wants, with the rest in various stages of maintenance and pre-deployment training in order to keep the pipeline primed.
The service needs more like 40 to support the effort, Lt. Gen. Jay Bargeron, deputy commandant for plans, policies, and operations, said during a presentation Wednesday at Modern Day Marine, but an ongoing analysis is working on a precise number. By law, the Navy has to have 31, but the law doesn’t govern whether they are deployable. 
“The Navy and the Marine Corps are aligned on this: 31 is not the right number,” Bargeron said. “It’s a floor, as was described.”
The Navy is working on building more amphibs, while also tackling the problem of delayed and backlogged maintenance to its existing fleet with the Amphibious Force Readiness Board.
“Its purpose is simple: to increase operational availability, to reduce maintenance delays, to prioritize modernization that actually improves readiness, to improve accountability across the enterprise, better synchronize daily Marine Corps demand signals, and last, generate more usable presence from the force we already have,” Adm. Daryl Caudle, the chief of naval operations, said Thursday at Modern Day Marine.
Caudle said he is encouraged by some of the maintenance that West Coast ships have been able to fast-track, and acknowledged that the East Coast is making a similar effort.
“But we are not declaring victory early,” he added. “This will take sustained pressure and leadership from the Pentagon to the commanding officers on the waterfront.”

The Marines are rushing to stand up a new counter-drone team as stress tests spotlight gaps in their defenses
Kelsey Baker
Business Insider

Even top Marine units are struggling to confront the drone threat in training.
The Corps is racing to catch up on counter-drone solutions.
These efforts align with others on offense, such as the relatively new attack drone team.
Hostile drones are challenging even highly trained US forces, which have struggled to contend with constant surveillance and attack in realistic combat scenarios. The Marine Corps is scrambling for answers, including standing up a new counter-drone team.
During a recent arduous pre-deployment training exercise, a highly proficient Marine unit ran into trouble as they confronted the drone threat in a rigorous and complex stress test, a Marine general shared during a panel event on Tuesday at Modern Day Marine in Washington, DC.
"It went about as expected," said Maj. Gen. Mark Clingan, who oversees Marine Air Ground Task Force Training Command, responsible for sharpening combat skills ahead of deployments.
"The Marines had a really difficult time going downrange and dealing with the drones," he said.
Further complicating the unit's counter-drone fight was the "double-edged sword" that is jamming and electronic warfare countermeasures, which can interfere with systems on both sides of the fight, Clingan told Business Insider after the panel.
"It confirms that right now, if faced with some of the emerging threats that we see on the battlefield, that we're going to have to adjust," he said.
That adjustment is underway, with counter-drone training lanes coming for Marines preparing to deploy later this summer. Likewise, the Corps is also investing more heavily in drone proficiency across the force.
The service expects to have tens of thousands more small drones across the force by the end of the year, which will help Marines more easily train with the technology, said Clingan. But effectively integrating those drones with other assets, like machine guns, aviation, and mortars, a complex battlefield symphony which the military refers to as combined arms, will take time.
A challenge for these efforts is the limited availability of drones and reliable counter-drone systems, both growing areas of defense industry development.
The Pentagon has pushed for greater investment in cheap, attritable drones with plans to field hundreds of thousands of small uncrewed aerial systems, part of its efforts to work toward American drone dominance. The military has also established a counter-drone task force, expanded base defense policies, and begun incorporating low-cost systems proven in Ukraine into its arsenal.
Defensive efforts are aimed at combating a range of threats, from small first-person-view drones to loitering munitions, though tools to effectively combat enemy drones en masse have struggled to keep pace with offensive efforts.
To address the training gap in offensive drone operations, the Marine Corps created its attack drone team last year to serve as a central braintrust for training and policy development.
Now, a similar line of effort is underway for counter-drone operations, Lt. Gen. Benjamin Watson, who oversees the Corps' Training and Education Command, told Business Insider at Modern Day Marine. The Corps is forming a counter-attack drone team as the service explores the counter-drone solutionsavailable to them now and potential future solutions.
The new team will mirror the offensive attack-drone unit in its approach to adopting the technology to advance tactics, techniques, and tech for defeating enemy drones.
The group will "pressurize the learning and dedicate a small, highly qualified group of individuals to learning just as fast in the counter-drone space as we have been in the drone operation space," Watson explained.
With its increased focus on fighting with and against drones, the Corps is also beginning to experiment with fiber-optic drones, which are resistant to electronic warfare and being used extensively in Ukraine, where large swaths of the war-torn landscape are blanketed in discarded cables.
That shift is driven in part by some of the training constraints at home, Marine leaders told Business Insider.
Teaching Marines to maneuver within the electromagnetic spectrum — and developing the expertise to operate effectively in it — is difficult because spectrum access and availability in US training areas are federally regulated, restricting how realistically units can train with drones to avoid impacting civilian activities like cell phone usage and aircraft safety.
Fiber-optic drones, which have proven invaluable in Ukraine, could be a workaround.
"It's a bird on a wire," Watson said. "It's a way around a contested spectrum environment that's tough to train in."
"We recognize we're in a time-competitive environment, and that in some areas, we are a little bit behind," Watson said of the fast-changing tech landscape during the panel. "And so we are trying to make sure that we are learning as fast as we can."

The Marines may need 40 amphibious warfare ships, general says
Jeff Schogol
Task and Purpose

The discussion on amphibious warfare ships comes as the Corps plans to continuously deploy three Marine Expeditionary Units.
When a crisis erupts in the Caribbean, Middle East, or elsewhere, a Marine Expeditionary Unit, or MEU, is often tasked with responding. The units are self-sustaining combat forces that can quickly deploy around the world for combat operations or humanitarian missions.  
The 31st MEU recently arrived in the Middle East and the 11th MEU is headed to the region to support U.S. military operations against Iran. While their exact mission hasn’t been made clear, Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) recently suggested that they could be used to capture Kharg Island, which processes about 90% of Iran’s crude oil exports.
The MEU is the smallest element of the Marine Air-Ground Task Force, the Corps’ organizing concept that combines ground, aviation, and logistics units into a task force under a single commander.
Each MEU is made up of about 2,200 Marines and includes a ground combat element, an aviation combat element, a logistics battalion, and the command structure needed to oversee all those disparate moving parts. They’re intended to be forward deployed — a unit that the U.S. can task at a moment’s notice to respond to a number of specific threats or crises.
A MEU is a “great entry force,” said Jonathan Schroden, an expert on Marine Corps force design with CNA, a Washington, D.C.-based not-for-profit research and analysis organization.
“It’s a fully integrated military unit,” Schroden told Task & Purpose. “It has its own ground power. It has its own airpower. It is self-sustaining logistically for a period of time. It has the ability to defend itself, and it has the command element that can oversee those other parts, but also connect it to the rest of the joint force for support beyond its own capabilities. So it’s a great entry force, to put it that way.”
MEUs train to conduct a variety of combat missions, including amphibious landings and short-duration raids, along with non-combat missions, such as responding to natural disasters, Schroden said.
They typically move around in groups of three amphibious warfare ships. These formations are led by amphibious assault ships, which can carry fighter jets such as the F-35B Lightning II. 
The fact that MEUs are based on ships allows them to “conduct operations from virtually anywhere,” Schroden said.
MEUs would be vulnerable in a war against China
In the 21st Century, Marine Expeditionary Units have deployed globally for all types of missions. They were sent to Afghanistan at the very beginning and during the chaotic end of that war. They evacuated Americans from Lebanon in 2006 and delivered aid to Haiti in 2010 after that country’s massive earthquake. They deployed to the Caribbean as part of the U.S. military buildup in the region that preceded the special operations mission in January that captured Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro and his wife, who were initially held aboard the amphibious assault ship USS Iwo Jima.
But with the Marine Corps in the midst of a massive reorganization — one that sees it shift its focus from irregular warfare to conventional conflict in the Indo-Pacific region, it is unclear what role MEUs might play in a war with China, said Stacie Pettyjohn, director of the defense program at the Center for a New American Security think tank in Washington, D.C.
In such a confrontation, the Marine Corps plans to fight from within the “First Island Chain,” a strategically important set of island nations in the western Pacific that includes Japan, Taiwan, the Philippines, and Indonesia. Pettyjohn said. The Corps refers to those forward-deployed Marines as “Stand-in Forces.”
However, the amphibious warfare ships on which MEUs are embarked would be “incredibly vulnerable” if they operated that close to Chinese forces, Pettyjohn told Task & Purpose.
“They don’t have a lot of organic defenses on them,” Pettyjohn said. “They’re very big ships, and they would be likely targeted by Chinese anti-ship ballistic missiles or cruise missiles.”
Toward that end of finding ways to operate within the range of Chinese weapons,, the Marines began creating littoral regiments that were designed to operate in the Indo-Pacific theater, she said. Such units are armed with long-range anti-ship missiles, and they have fewer heavy vehicles in favor of more drones.
“A key part of the concept is being small, agile, moving around, making it harder for China to target them, and also being able to move so that they can support wherever the Navy is operating or be wherever they need to be in terms of sea denial or maritime surveillance of key choke points within the first island chain,” Pettyjohn said.
Still, it remains unclear exactly which types of vessels would bring such stand-in forces ashore, and how those Marines would be resupplied, she said.
For more, check out our YouTube channel, where Task & Purpose’s video producer Kyle Gunn explains how MEUs fit into the Marine Corps’ warfighting concept.

Oshkosh Defense Shows Expeditionary Power and Modernized Mobility at Modern Day Marine 2026
Oshkosh Defense via Business Wire
Business Wire

WASHINGTON, April 27, 2026--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Oshkosh Defense LLC, an Oshkosh Corporation [NYSE: OSK] business, will exhibit at Modern Day Marine, April 28–30, 2026, showcasing advanced mobility and sustainment solutions built to support Marines operating across distributed maritime environments.
Remotely Operated Ground Unit for Expeditionary Fires (ROGUE-Fires): Equipped with the Navy/Marine Expeditionary Ship Interdiction System (NMESIS), ROGUE-Fires delivers an expeditionary, land-based fires capability that enables sea denial and supports naval campaigns. Leveraging Oshkosh’s mobility integration expertise, the system pairs advanced payloads and autonomy with the proven Oshkosh JLTV platform to perform in austere environments. It enables Marines to disperse, maneuver, and remain survivable while operating forward in contested maritime environments.
Medium Tactical Vehicle Replacement (MTVR): Also on display is the MTVR 4x4 equipped with exportable power and enhanced lighting. These enhancements strengthen the MTVR’s core mission capabilities – logistical support, operational mobility, and transportability – while improving performance across current missions and expanding flexibility in distributed environments. The platform builds on proven mobility with targeted upgrades that extend service life and increase mission execution.
"Mobility enables how Marines fight and sustain combat power forward, and Oshkosh brings that capability to every platform we deliver," said Pat Williams, Chief Program Officer at Oshkosh Defense. "We develop robust, versatile platforms and provide the lifecycle support needed to keep them ready, relevant, and effective in contested environments. From autonomous fires to modernized mobility and integrated sustainment, our approach connects capability with long-term performance in the field."
Attendees can learn more about Oshkosh Defense’s next-generation technologies at Modern Day Marine in booth #2307.
About Oshkosh Defense
Oshkosh Defense is a global leader in the design, production and sustainment of best-in-class military vehicles, technology solutions and mobility systems. Oshkosh develops and applies emerging technologies that advance safety and mission success. Setting the industry standard for sustaining fleet readiness, Oshkosh ensures every solution is supported worldwide throughout its entire life cycle.
Oshkosh Defense, LLC is an Oshkosh Corporation business [NYSE: OSK]. Learn more about Oshkosh Defense at www.oshkoshdefense.com.
About Oshkosh Corporation
At Oshkosh (NYSE: OSK), we make innovative, mission-critical equipment to help everyday heroes advance communities around the world. Headquartered in Wisconsin, Oshkosh Corporation employs over 18,000 team members worldwide, all united behind a common purpose: to make a difference in people’s lives. Oshkosh products can be found in more than 150 countries under the brands of JLG®, Pierce®, MAXIMETAL, Oshkosh® S-Series™, Oshkosh® Defense, McNeilus®, IMT®, Jerr-Dan®, Frontline™ Communications, Oshkosh® Airport Products, Oshkosh AeroTech™ and Pratt Miller. For more information, visit oshkoshcorp.com.
Forward Looking Statements
This news release contains statements that the Company believes to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including, without limitation, statements regarding the Company’s future financial position, business strategy, targets, projected sales, costs, earnings, capital expenditures, debt levels and cash flows, and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. When used in this news release, words such as "may," "will," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "believe," "should," "project" or "plan" or the negative thereof or variations thereon or similar terminology are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These factors include risks related to the Company’s ability to successfully execute on its strategic road map and meet its long-term financial goals. Additional information concerning these and other factors is contained in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this news release. The Company assumes no obligation, and disclaims any obligation, to update information contained in this news release. Investors should be aware that the Company may not update such information until the Company’s next quarterly earnings conference call, if at all.

A firefight is too late to start trusting the new Corps, say senior Marines
Jeff Schogol, Kyle Rempfer
Task & Purpose

Five senior enlisted Marines shared "Old Corps" lessons from their careers, and why they already trust the young Marines who will come after them.
Every Marine knows that the “Old Corps” had it worse. The rocks they slept on were harder; the MREs they ate were (somehow) worse; they did it all with iron sights. You get the idea. All Marines have heard some version of how the Corps used to be — including today’s top enlisted Marines. 
Sharing a stage Tuesday at the Modern Day Marine conference in Washington, D.C., five of the Corps’ most senior sergeants major recalled lessons they learned as young Marines that helped them prepare for not just handing the torch to the next generation, but trusting the newcomers, too.
Sgt. Maj. Ryan Gnecco, the senior enlisted leader at Training and Education Command, pointed to some older Marines who periodically look upon the younger generation with concern. 
“There’s always going to be somebody you don’t think is ready, (but) in the middle of a firefight, they’re going to show up at your [position] with a bunch of ammo, and you’re going to say, ‘Thanks, glad you made it. Now, get back and get more ammo,” Gnecco said. “And they are ready, they’re willing to take our place.”
A lesson Gnecco said he continually presses on today’s young Marines is one he recalled learning as a lance corporal during a safety brief at the Udairi Range Complex, near Camp Buehring in Kuwait.
“The safety brief started with, ‘if safety was paramount, none of us would be here right now,’” Gnecco said. “That always tracks back in my mind, because we are warfighters. That’s what we do for a living.”
Sgt. Maj. Jacob Reiff, of Manpower and Reserve Affairs, agreed. When his generation was gearing up for Afghanistan and Iraq, Reiff noted, some of the “old guys” would warn that the rising crop of recruits wasn’t ready for what was ahead. But waiting for the bullets to start flying, he said, was too late to start believing in younger Marines.
“This next generation is going to be just as masterful in whatever fight we put them into,” Reiff said. “But we have to trust them, and it’s our trust that we have to give them. They don’t have to earn anything. It’s given to them.”
The Corps’ top enlisted Marine, Sgt. Maj. of the Corps Carlos Ruiz, ended the panel with a classic leadership dictum: always lead from the front — though his advice also touched on another well-known directive: always look cool.
Ruiz recalled a harrowing early-career PT run led by a master sergeant as a cigarette dangled nonchalantly from his mouth. The image was burned in Ruiz’s mind — not just because an old Jarhead smoking as he “smoked” his Marines is as American as apple pie — but because the master sergeant was undergoing the same grueling run as his troops. 
“The master sergeant said, ‘You’re going to go PT,’ and he led you from the front. That’s the point,” Ruiz said, before noting that cigarettes might be a tad dated. “Now, maybe it’s not a cigarette anymore. Maybe it’s a vape … or a Monster (energy drink).”

Marines Considering Alternative Ships for SOUTHCOM Deployments
Mallory Shelbourne
USNI News

WASHINGTON, D.C. — The Marine Corps is preparing to deploy Marines on specialty platforms like the Expeditionary Fast Transport and the Expeditionary Sea Base to meet combatant commander demands in the Caribbean, a top general said Wednesday.
Due to a lack of ready amphibious ships on both coasts, the next Marine Expeditionary Unit deployment from the East Coast will have to work with other platforms. The East Coast-based Iwo Jima Amphibious Ready Group and the 22nd Marine Expeditionary Unit are nearing the end of their current deployment to U.S. Southern Command after getting extended until the end of May.
“We are generating and training the 24th MEU to backfill some of those capabilities [in SOUTHCOM],” Lt. Gen. Jay Bargeron, the deputy commandant for plans, policies and operations, said at the annual Modern Day Marine symposium.
“It won’t be able to backfill all of them. And make no mistake, that’s no ARG/MEU. That is a MEU. It’s sub-optimized, but it will be available to provide some capability. And I think that perhaps there will be another single ship deployed that will help them have some capability.”
Bargeron referenced Marine Rotational Force-Southeast Asia (MRF-SEA) and USS Ashland (LSD-48) – which are currently operating in the Indo-Pacific and participating in the annual Balikatan exercise in the Philippines – as an example of how the Marines can utilize independently deployed ships to meet missions for the combatant commanders.
A Marine with 3d Marine Littoral Regiment, 3d Marine Division, departs from the USNS City of Bismarck (T-EPF-9) during exercise Bougainville III at Pearl City, Hawaii, Feb. 23, 2024. US Marine Corps photo
WASHINGTON, D.C. — The Marine Corps is preparing to deploy Marines on specialty platforms like the Expeditionary Fast Transport and the Expeditionary Sea Base to meet combatant commander demands in the Caribbean, a top general said Wednesday.
Due to a lack of ready amphibious ships on both coasts, the next Marine Expeditionary Unit deployment from the East Coast will have to work with other platforms. The East Coast-based Iwo Jima Amphibious Ready Group and the 22nd Marine Expeditionary Unit are nearing the end of their current deployment to U.S. Southern Command after getting extended until the end of May.
“We are generating and training the 24th MEU to backfill some of those capabilities [in SOUTHCOM],” Lt. Gen. Jay Bargeron, the deputy commandant for plans, policies and operations, said at the annual Modern Day Marine symposium.
“It won’t be able to backfill all of them. And make no mistake, that’s no ARG/MEU. That is a MEU. It’s sub-optimized, but it will be available to provide some capability. And I think that perhaps there will be another single ship deployed that will help them have some capability.”
Bargeron referenced Marine Rotational Force-Southeast Asia (MRF-SEA) and USS Ashland (LSD-48) – which are currently operating in the Indo-Pacific and participating in the annual Balikatan exercise in the Philippines – as an example of how the Marines can utilize independently deployed ships to meet missions for the combatant commanders.
An MV-22B Ospreys assigned to Marine Medium Tiltrotor Squadron (VMM) 363, Marine Rotational Force – Darwin 25.3, prepares to land on the flight deck during night flight operations aboard the expeditionary sea base USS Miguel Keith (ESB-5) in the Philippine Sea, Sept. 3, 2025. US Marine Corps photo
The Marines are gearing up to do something similar in the Caribbean, Bargeron said.
“They are going to deploy because we’ve been given tasks to continue in the Caribbean even after 22 MEU comes home,” Bargeron told reporters of the 24th MEU, which is the next element that will deploy from the East Coast. “There are no ships. There may be one that’s able to help with certain capabilities during certain times.”
“Where they deploy, they deploy and they have this capability. They’ll have a mission set and a set of tasks to execute. Some of those tasks may involve needing a platform, like maritime interdiction perhaps. And a portion of that MEU could get on that ship and go do that thing.”
That ship could be an independently deployed amphibious warship, or an ESB or EPF, Bargeron said..
ESBs are oil-tanker-sized support ships that act as floating bases for special operations and mine countermeasure forces throughout the world. ESBs USS Miguel Keith (ESB-5) and USS John L. Canley (ESB-6) have been key platforms in the recent interdiction of sanctioned tankers in the Middle East and Indo-Pacific. The Spearhead-class EPFs are high-speed aluminum catamarans that were developed to move troops quickly across a theater. Most of the Spearhead-class ships have been sidelined as part of U.S. Military Sealift Command’s ongoing effort to ease strain on the civilian mariner workforce.
Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Daryl Caudle said several weeks ago that the U.S. does not need an aircraft carrier to perform maritime interdiction missions in U.S. Southern Command, where the Trump administration has conducted lethal strikes on alleged drug-trafficking vessels over the last several months.
Turning to other platforms like the ESB and EPF comes as the Navy and Marine Corps grapple with years of amphibious readiness challenges throughout the fleet.
To that end, Bargeron said the sea services are reassessing the force generation model for amphibious ships, which currently uses the 36-month Optimized Fleet Response Plan that the Navy uses for both amphibious warships and aircraft carriers.
“It’s being executed at 44 months, so it’s behind,” he told reporters. “You know, none of the maintenance is being done on time. What we’re looking at is a model which is 56 months. It’s just one, we’re looking at a few. But there’s a 56-month model that the team’s trying to work out the details, in which you would get two seven-month deployments out of that ARG/MEU, for one shipyard.”
The OFRP is a 36-month framework for carriers and surface ships that’s meant to generate fleet readiness for a seven-month deployment, but most cycles end up running longer. The blueprint allows the Marines that are part of the MEU to train with the sailors attached to the three ships that make up the ARG.
“You just can’t match people with a ship and expect miracles to happen,” Lt. Gen. Bobbi Shea, the commanding general of U.S. Marine Corps Forces Command, said during the same panel. “The high standard by which we employ these Marines – whether it be noncombatant evacuations operations, embassy reinforcements, amphibious assault – these are complex operations which take training time.”
The Marine Corps wants waivers to remove a rule preventing modernization and maintenance overhauls during the last five years of an amphibious ship’s service life. Instead, the service wants to cut that down to one year, Bargeron told reporters.
The Navy and Marine Corps are also considering extending the service lives of the older Wasp-class big-deck amphibious warships. Caudle recently endorsed a five-year service life-extension for USS Wasp (LHD-1), expeditionary warfare director on the chief of naval operations’ staff (OPNAV N95) Brig. Gen. Lee Meyer said Tuesday at the conference.
The five-year extension would take Wasp out to 2034, the same year the Navy currently expects to take delivery of USS Helmand Province (LHA-10). The potential service life extensions for the Wasp-class ships come as the new America-class amphibious assault ships, which are under construction at HII’s Ingalls Shipbuilding, face delays.
“We think all of them will have to be extended,” Bargeron said of the Wasp-class ships like USS Essex (LHD-2) and USS Kearsarge (LHD-3).

Textron unveils autonomous ground vehicle designed for Marine Corps littoral units
Meghann Myers
Defense One

Textron debuted the RIPSAW M1 demonstrator on the floor of the Modern Day Marine conference Tuesday, hoping to catch the service’s eye as it expands its unmanned vehicle portfolio.
“It's really an early investment in what we believe the Marines will need in the future,” Sara Willett, Textron’s vice president of programs, told Defense One. “It’s not replacing something, but augmenting the capability that they have, keeping those Marines out of harm's way and really providing additional effective range of both manned and unmanned platforms, is where we see it going.”
The M1 is part of Textron’s Modular Open Systems Approach for uncrewed ground vehicles, meaning operators can plug in a wide variety of payloads depending on mission needs. The company envisions pairing it with the Advanced Reconnaissance Vehicle or the Amphibious Combat Vehicle. 
“Some of the operational benefits we see it providing to the Marine Corps are enhanced situational awareness and lethality, keeping those Marines out of harm's way,” Willett said. “It can reduce risk to high-value crewed assets like the ARV, ACD by enabling better standoff operations.
The M1 can support modules like counter-unmanned systems, reconnaissance and surveillance sensors, and loitering munition launch platforms, she said
That could include Damocles, a Textron search-and-strike drone with a small footprint, which will be loaded on the demonstrator at Modern Day Marine.
“So this is our unveiling of the pairing of that launched effect onto our M1 tech demonstrator, really to show the art of the possible to the Marine Corps by providing a kinetic capability, which gives the m1 and then, by extension, the crewed vehicles like the ARV or ACV, the organic ability to target a tank or item of interest,” Willett said.
Textron is hoping to grab the Corps’ attention with the new system, having put their own money into its development thus far.
“Once we're able to make the vehicle ready for deployment, we would certainly look to put these with a unit, you know, go through a campaign of learning, get some of that feedback, and then iterate on the vehicle to make it more of a fieldable platform outside of the technology demonstrator element of it right now.”

Marines Offer Glimpse Of New Plan For Its Future Ground Combat Forces
Howard Altman
The War Zone

The United States Marine Corps on Tuesday gave us our first glimpse of its evolving plan for its ground forces to succeed in the battlefield of the future. Dubbed Ground Combat Element 2040 (GCE 2040), it calls for ensuring that Marines are not just equipped with the latest technology, but that they know how to use it, all while maintaining readiness as they integrate these new systems into their formations. While all the final details remain in flux, we are getting a general idea of some of the elements the plan will include.
A working concept of the plan was presented for the first time today during a panel at the Modern Day Marine Expo held in Washington, D.C. It builds on the vision of former Marine Commandant Gen. David Berger’s Marine Force Design 2030 initiative, according to one of the current Corps leaders working to implement GCE 2040.
“This is really an opportunity for us to describe the future of the ground combat element in the United States Marine Corps,” explained Maj. Gen. Jason Morris, the Corps’ Director of Operations for Plans, Policies, and Operations. We want to “make sure that we have a clear vision of the capabilities required to field the most lethal, survivable ground combat element in the world, and make sure that we’ve got a pathway over the next three fiscal year defense programs that we are keeping our eye on the horizon, staying adaptable and incorporating new technologies into our Marine divisions and those subordinate elements that are a part of it.”
In addition, the Marines are “also continuing to refine the force design vision, to make sure that we are ready to go for any crisis, contingency or conflict in the future,” Morris added.
To better explain the GCE 2040 concept, Morris played a video laying out some of what it entails. The video, which has not yet been shared online, and a document that will be published in coming weeks, focuses on how the Marine Corps approaches human-centric warfare of the future.
“GCE 2040 is about equipping the Marine, not the machine,” the video stated. “While looking ahead to integrate robotic and autonomous systems into our formations and operationalizing AI at the tactical edge through concepts like Project Dynamis [an integrated battle management system being developed by the Marines], the Marine Corps will enable combat formations to sense, make sense and act with greater speed and precision than any adversary.”
Under GCE 2040, Marines will “integrate advanced sensors and intelligence networks to find and fix the enemy across all domains” while “conducting expeditionary maneuver in contested spaces and sustaining a resilient force through all phases of the operation,” the video stated. In addition, Marines will employ “joint forceful fires and achieve the effects of mass while mitigating vulnerabilities striking adversary targets from land, air and sea,” and establish “persistent, survivable [command and control] networks that enable decision making at machine speed from the strategic level down to the squad.”
The objective “is to generate the tempo of decision and action that allows us to shape, seize and hold key maritime terrain, deter aggression and prevail decisively in any future conflict,” the video explained.
This broadly fits with the U.S. military’s push to create ever larger and faster kill webs, in order to break the enemy’s decision cycle.
When we asked for more details, the Marines told us that the plan includes addressing the need for ground-based air defense down to the squad level.
“The proliferation of inexpensive one-way attack drones is the most significant tactical threat we face,” the Marines told us. “While systems like the Marine Air Defense Integrated System (MADIS) and Medium-Range Intercept Capability [MRIC] are critical for a layered defense at echelon we must continue to thicken the protective layer that cover Marines at all echelons.”
You can read more about the Marines’ emerging doctrine for devolving air defense down to the individual Marine in our story here.
In a broader context, including air defense and offensive capabilities, the Marines told us, “We must increase investment in multi-domain lethality and targeting systems that enable the right weapon to engage the right target at the right time to maximize the efficient use of lethal means against the enemy… The modern battlefield demands that we develop and field dispersed, AI-enabled targeting systems to create a network of sensors across the entire GCE.”
The plan also involves evolving how Marines view technology. Autonomous systems and AI are a central focus of the new plan. The Marines state that these are not just tools, but are members of the team and the Marines are being trained to consciously accept risk with hardware rather than troops.

Both AI and large quantities of autonomous systems will be critical to enabling future kill webs as discussed above. The USMC also says interoperability, both with other U.S. military branches and allies, will be more critical than ever to achieving its aims going forward.
“The fact is that the Marine Corps is focused on the human being, individual, sailor, how we recruit and develop them, and how we build them into lethal combat teams,” proffered Maj. Gen. Farrell J Sullivan, Commanding General of the Second Marine Division. “That has always been the case, and that will always be the case in the Marine Corps going forward, but modernization matters, and although we’re doing well, we have a long way to go, and as long as I’m in command of Second Marine Division, I will not be satisfied with where we are.”
The GCE 2040 concept, he added, draws on lessons learned from modern combat that has evolved over the past decade into one where unmanned systems – like large drones such as Shahed-136s and smaller, first-person view (FPV) types – have become a major threat in Ukraine, the Middle East and many other places around the world.
The following image shows a U.S. Air Force E-3 Sentry AWACS destroyed in a combined Iranian missile and drone barrage during the now-paused war.
New image reportedly showing the USAF E-3 Sentry destroyed in an Iranian attack at Prince Sultan Airbase on Friday.
Matches 81-0005, an E-3C seen deployed to the base in recent weeks. 
— OSINTtechnical (@Osinttechnical) March 29, 2026
The following video shows an Iranian-backed militia using FPV drones to strike a Black Hawk helicopter and a critical air defense radar at an American base in Iraq.
An Iranian-backed militia carried out a successful FPV drone strike on Camp Victory in Iraq yesterday, successfully hitting multiple targets.
Seen here, one of the FPV attack munitions hits a parked UH-60 Black Hawk. 
— OSINTtechnical (@Osinttechnical) March 25, 2026
The new plan envisions future combat, particularly in the Pacific, where Marines would likely have to fight inside the Chinese weapons engagement zone and across wide swaths of ocean. In such a battle, they would face standoff weapons and non-kinetic effects like advanced electronic warfare far more damaging and disrupting than what U.S. forces have faced in the fight against Iran. A Pacific conflict would also strain logistics as like never before.
“When you envision the type of fight we’re preparing for, where we face a peer or near peer adversary in a high-end fight, where all domains are contested, and in some the adversary will have an advantage, that’s not the battlefield we have fought on, at least not since I’ve been in the Marine Corps,” Sullivan stated. “And we see, if you look back over the last 10 or so years, how that manifests itself in places like Ukraine. Again, I don’t want to have a bias towards that conflict and say that all the future will look exactly like that, because it won’t, but we would be criminal not to be paying attention to that.”
Clearly the USMC is painting in very broad strokes at this time as there is still a lot more work to do to hammer out the details of GCE 2040. The Marines say they will provide more details in the next few weeks and we will continue to cover this issue as they become available.

Marine Corps considering Army’s MV-75 as an attack helo replacement
Meghann Myers
Defense One

Bell unveiled an armed version specifically for the Corps at the Modern Day Marine conference.
The Marine Corps may take its relationship with tiltrotor aircraft to the next level in the coming years with an attack platform to join the V-22 Osprey transport aircraft it’s been operating for the last two decades.
The service is looking for aircraft to fill gaps as it prepares to retire its AV-8 Harriers and F/A-18A-C variants, then eventually replace UH-1 Venom and AH-1 Viper attack helicopters. The Army-developed MV-75 Cheyenne II is a possibility, the Corps’ assistant deputy commandant for aviation said Wednesday at the Modern Day Marine conference in Washington, D.C. 
“So I would say we're exploring every option when it comes to the [Future Attack Strike] program,” Brig. Gen. Bob Finneran said during an update on the state of Marine Corps aviation. “MV-75, or the like, certainly could be one of the options that we look at.”
With that in mind, Bell-Textron unveiled a miniature model of its tiltrotor aircraft on the conference’s show floor Tuesday, armed with missiles and painted to look like it belongs to Marine Light Attack Squadron 267, which currently flies Venoms and Vipers. 
“We're just solidifying our top-level requirements and finalizing the request for information back from industry,” Finneran said.
The Army selected the MV-75 to be its Future Long-Range Assault Aircraft in 2022, announcing earlier this year that it planned to field prototypes to units for testing by the end of the year.
That timeline is still somewhat flexible, the head of Army aviation told reporters earlier this month, but the service officially brought the airframe into the Army family with a naming ceremony April 17 at the Army Aviation Warfighting Summit in Nashville. 
Bell’s offering would take the MV-75 from a transport platform—designed to take over troop transport missions from the UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter—to a first-of-its-kind attack tiltrotor that would provide close-air support or launch drones to protect troops on the ground or in the air. 
The Future Attack Strike program will also explore what comes after the Osprey, Col. Richard Rusnok, who heads Marine aviation’s Cunningham Group, said Wednesday.
“The V-22 as I said, will remain a relevant platform into the 2050s and then, as we start to complete the FASt program, we will look at the next-generation assault support platform to replace the V-22, that will have many of the same attributes, as far as size as the current V-22 fleet with, obviously, advanced capabilities, to include potential advances in propulsion, sensors and things like that.”

US Navy to extend service life of amphibious assault ship USS Wasp by 5 years
Riley Ceder
Navy Times

The U.S. Navy and Marine Corps have extended the lifespan of the lead Wasp-class amphibious assault ship by five years and are considering doing the same for other vessels in the amphibious fleet.
Expeditionary Warfare Director Brig. Gen. Lee Meyer told reporters Tuesday at Modern Day Marine exposition in Washington that the Navy lengthened the operability window of the USS Wasp following a study on Wasp-class amphibious assault ships.
"The CNO approved the service life extension of the USS Wasp," Meyer said. "He extended it by five years until 2034. The other LHDs, we've got to study to see if we can extend them and the plan is going to be to do that."
A study of amphibious dock landing ships is expected to be delivered by Naval Sea Systems Command within several days, Meyers added. The study will provide updates on the status of those landing ship docks and recommendations for service life extensions.
The report will also help inform the U.S. Navy and Marine Corps' plans to sustain amphibious ships across their 40 year service life, with hopes of pushing it to 50, to bolster the service's military readiness.
The Wasp's new lease on life is an example of what the Navy and Marine Corps would like to do with other ships, but the services have yet to analyze what exactly that would look like, Meyer said.
The Navy's amphibious fleet has faced numerous issues during its service life.
Three Wasp-class amphibious warships encountered engineering problems at sea in 2024, with the USS Wasp itself having a deployment delayed as a result of mechanical failures.
The fiscal 2023 National Defense Authorization Act signed into law a requirement for the Navy to maintain at least 31 amphibious ships, including 10 amphibious assault ships.
The Navy holds an inventory of 32 amphibious warfare ships, but half of the fleet is in poor condition and poorly maintained, according to a 2024 report from the U.S. Government Accountability Office.
A defense official told Military Times in August 2025 that the readiness rate of amphibious ships had dropped to 41% despite the Marine Corps previously stating that the amphibious readiness rate needed to remain at 80% or higher to complete missions.
Marine Corps Commandant Gen. Eric Smith said at the 2026 Sea-Air-Space exposition that the current number of amphibious ships is not sufficient enough to meet requirements set forth by combatant commanders.
He spoke of extending the service life of ships to help address concerns over lacking fleet size.
Four amphibious ships are deployed across the globe currently, including the USS Tripoli and USS Boxer, which are stationed in the Middle East in support of Operation Epic Fury.
President Trump's proposed $1.5 trillion fiscal 2027 defense budget asks Congress to carve out funds for a new America-class amphibious assault ship and one San Antonio-class amphibious transport dock.

Teledyne FLIR Defense Expands Payload Program with Emesent Hovermap for GPS-Denied Operations
Miriam McNabb
Drone Life

New integration brings LiDAR mapping and radiation detection together across air and ground platforms
Teledyne FLIR Defense has expanded its Third-Party Payload Integration Program with the addition of Emesent’s Hovermap LiDAR payload. Announced at Modern Day Marine 2026, the certification allows the Hovermap system to operate across Teledyne FLIR’s unmanned aerial systems (UAS), ground robots, and radiation detection platforms.
The integration focuses on a common operational challenge: environments where GPS signals are unavailable or unreliable. These conditions often occur in tunnels, dense urban areas, and hazardous CBRN (chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear) environments. By combining LiDAR-based mapping with existing platforms, the companies aim to improve situational awareness without relying on external infrastructure.
Addressing GPS-Denied Environments
Emesent’s Hovermap uses LiDAR-based Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) technology to generate accurate 3D maps without GPS. This capability allows operators to navigate and map complex environments in real time.
The system is now compatible with several Teledyne FLIR platforms. On the SkyRanger® R70 and R80D SkyRaider® drones, Hovermap enables aerial mapping in GPS-denied conditions. When mounted on the SUGV™ 325 ground robot, it provides continuous 3D awareness in enclosed or obstructed spaces.
The integration also extends to radiation detection. When paired with the MUVE™ R430 payload on the SUGV platform, Hovermap allows operators to visualize radiation levels within a mapped environment. This creates a combined spatial and hazard picture for CBRN teams operating in the field.
“Knowing the shape of a space is powerful. Knowing where the radiation is within that space, in real time, without putting a person in harm’s way, is an operational game-changer,” said Stefan Hrabar, co-founder and chief strategy officer at Emesent. “Our partnership with Teledyne FLIR Defense brings together GPS-denied mapping and radiation detection in a way that directly addresses what CBRN operators need in the field.”
Expanding Multi-Sensor Capabilities
Teledyne FLIR says the integration reflects a broader shift toward combining multiple sensing technologies into a single operational view. The company’s open-architecture approach allows third-party payloads to be certified for compatibility across its platforms.
“Teledyne FLIR builds platforms trusted for the most demanding CBRN missions in the world,” said Tung Ng, vice president of Unmanned Systems North America for Teledyne FLIR Defense. “Working with Emesent, we’ll be able to give operators a fused, spatial picture of the threat environment they simply haven’t had access to before.
“This is the direction the whole field is heading in, and we’re delivering it now through certified third-party payloads like Hovermap,” Ng added.
Certified payloads undergo testing for mechanical fit, electrical integration, software compatibility, and flight performance. This process is designed to ensure that new capabilities can be deployed reliably across existing systems.
Foundation for Future Development
Both companies indicate that the partnership will extend beyond current capabilities. Ongoing development efforts include autonomous navigation and expanded sensor fusion across additional CBRN detection technologies.
The integration highlights a growing focus on systems that combine mapping, detection, and real-time data into a single operational workflow. For public safety and defense users, this approach may reduce the need for multiple separate tools in complex environments.
The integrated systems are on display at Teledyne FLIR Defense booth #1724 at Modern Day Marine 2026, held April 28–30 at Marine Corps Base Quantico.

‘Alpha’ troops and more ships: Acting Navy Secretary Hung Cao outlines vision for service
Riley Ceder
Navy Times

Recently appointed Acting Navy Secretary Hung Cao delivered brief remarks Tuesday about his plans for the Navy during one of his first public appearances as the head civilian leader of the service.
Cao touched on his vision for the Golden Fleet, modernization efforts for the Navy and Marine Corps and the type of values and military ethos he is looking for in future service members while speaking at the Modern Day Marine exposition in Washington.
Cao took over as the acting secretary Wednesday after previous Navy Secretary John Phelan was fired by the Trump administration.
Cao, who previously criticized a sailor who performed as a drag queen, described what he viewed as ideal qualifications for future service members.
“I don’t need cross-dressers in the military,” Cao said. “I need alpha males and alpha females.”
Continuing to address military culture, Cao said the services needed “meat eaters” instead of “leaf eaters.”
The acting Navy secretary discussed the Golden Fleet, which he said was not only about building ships, but about reforming the acquisition process to deliver a high and low mix of ships, or more expensive and more capable ships with less expensive ones.
A destroyer couldn’t be used for everything, he pointed out, while also mentioning frigates, battleships and unmanned systems as pivotal components of that high-low mix.
Cao said the Navy was working within the confines of a limited budget as it tried to navigate trillions of dollars worth of problems.
The fiscal 2026 defense budget allocated $838.7 billion for discretionary spending, and President Donald Trump has proposed a $1.5 trillion fiscal 2027 defense budget.
The Navy would work within the budget to see where ships, aircraft and equipment could be improved, and what aspects needed continued maintenance, Cao said.
The Navy was also focused on delivering the sixth generation aircraft F/A-XX, the new Navy Medium Landing Ship and more amphibious transport docks, Cao said.
The Navy’s Medium Landing Ship program seeks to acquire 18 to 35 amphibious ships in support of the Marine Corps, according to Congress. The ship is designed to transport troops, equipment and supplies to shore without the need for established ports.
The fiscal 2027 defense budget requested $65.8 billion for shipbuilding, including money for six Medium Landing Ships.

General Dynamics presents ARV-30 and 3 advanced systems at Modern Day Marine 2026
Nicolle 
Carro e Motos

General Dynamics showcased a broad portfolio of military technologies during Modern Day Marine 2026, highlighted by the ARV-30 reconnaissance vehicle.
Equipped with a 30 mm cannon and an 8×8 configuration, the model is designed to expand reconnaissance and combat capabilities by integrating advanced sensors, connectivity, and command systems into a single platform tailored for the modern battlefield.
In addition to the new vehicle, the company presented digital and logistics support solutions, such as the Digital Twin Sustainment Suite (DTSS), which uses simulation and virtual training to enhance maintenance and troop readiness. The goal is to improve operational efficiency and ensure greater equipment availability in real-world scenarios, reinforcing the importance of sustainment in military strategy.
On the technological front, systems such as RAMPART CMOSS and PhantomLink demonstrate advances in communications and data integration. While the former consolidates multiple functions into a single, easily upgradable module, the latter uses laser communication to ensure high-speed and secure data transmission, even in hostile environments with electronic interference.
Another highlight was the presentation of military bridging systems, including COBRA, integrated with an unmanned vehicle and scheduled for testing in 2026. Alongside it, solutions such as HYDRA and VIPER expand the ability of ground forces to cross obstacles, offering modular and adaptable options for different types of missions, from light to heavy.

ONDS stock eyes best month of 2026: New defense unit lines up battlefield drone pitch to US operators
Deepti Sri
Stocktwits

?Earlier this week, Mistral secured a contract to deliver THOR tactical drone systems to the U.S. Army’s Small Uncrewed Aircraft Systems Product Office.
?Ondas recently completed its $175 million merger with Mistral, expanding access to U.S. Army and Special Operations contract vehicles.
?The merger added $264 million in contracted backlog and helped lift Ondas’ pro forma backlog to $457 million as of March 31.
Shares of Ondas Holdings, Inc. (ONDS) rose nearly 1% in overnight trading on Wednesday after the company said its newly merged defense unit, Mistral, is set to showcase its battlefield-ready drone systems for unit-level deployment to military operators this week.
ONDS stock jumped 16% in April and is on track to record its best month this year.
Mistral Showcases Battlefield Drone Tech
Mistral will showcase its drone technology at Modern Day Marine 2026, a Washington, D.C.-based defense industry symposium running from April 28 to April 30. The symposium brings together bigwigs at the Marine Corps, operators, and defense contractors to discuss emerging battlefield tech and operational requirements.
Ondas said on X that, “as part of this environment, Mistral is engaging with operators and partners around tactical UAS capabilities designed for real-world deployment at the unit level.” Mistral’s presence comes amid Ondas’ efforts to push its autonomous systems portfolio closer to field-level operations across U.S. defense programs.
Mistral Lands Army THOR Drone Deal
The development follows a contract announced earlier this week, under which Mistral will deliver THOR tactical drone systems and payloads to the U.S. Army’s Small Uncrewed Aircraft Systems Product Office.
THOR is a portable military drone for small frontline units and can be used for reconnaissance, surveillance, communications and cargo delivery depending on mission needs. The systems are intended to support small tactical formations with rapidly deployable aerial capability. Mistral is working with Fuse, a unit of Elbit Systems C4I & Cyber, on integration of mission payloads and platform capabilities.
Ondas Boosts Defense Pipeline With Mistral Buy
Last week, Ondas completed its merger with Mistral in a deal valued at $175 million that expanded the company’s access to U.S. Army and Special Operations contract vehicles and added domestic manufacturing and integration infrastructure.
Mistral brought $264 million in contracted backlog into the combined business, helping lift Ondas’ pro forma backlog to $457 million as of March 31 after including contributions from both Mistral and recently acquired World View Enterprises.
The deal was part of Ondas’ broader effort to scale its autonomous systems platform across defense and homeland security markets, including tactical drones, counter-UAS tech and ground robotics programs.
How Do Retail Traders Feel About ONDS?
On Stocktwits, retail sentiment for ONDS was ‘bearish’ amid ‘normal’ message volume.
One user said, “Ink is barely dry on the deal and Mistral already landed us $20 million with an Army drone contract, beautiful execution, EB!! [founder Eric Brock]”
Another user said, “Company has produced some great new videos lately. EB hinted a newer version of Iron Drone at the Investor call. Would love to see at earnings a updated Iron Drone.”
ONDS stock has rocketed nearly 1,300% over the past year.

Robotic Ripsaw M1 built to scout and draw fire for US Marines
David Szondy
New Atlas

At the recent Modern Day Marine Exposition in Washington, DC, Textron Systems rolled out a robot made to fight alongside US Marines. Called the Ripsaw M1, it's designed to act as a robotic force multiplier for the Advanced Reconnaissance Vehicle (ARV) and Amphibious Combat Vehicle (ACV).
As part of its policy of reinvention and modernization, the US Marine Corps is replacing its traditional AAV7A1 Assault Amphibious Vehicle and LAV-25 Light Armored Vehicle with the ARV and ACV, respectively. Replacing these Cold War-era vehicles from the 1970s with more advanced platforms featuring modular, networked architecture is intended not only to improve capabilities and crew safety, but also to create systems that can operate alongside robotic vehicles like the Ripsaw M1.
The M1 is related to previous Ripsaw robots, yet it differs in that it's more compact than the larger M5 developed for the Army and replaces tank-like tracks with wheels. This is because Marines train for amphibious operations and the M1 needs to be able to handle wet, irregular conditions found on beaches and other littoral locations.
Essentially, its main function is to act as a teammate and force multiplier, with the ARV playing the role of command center and the M1 as the scout. Weighing 4,300 lb (1,950 kg) and only 10.5 ft (3.2 m) long, the M1 can carry up to 2,000 lb (907 kg) in payload. Its all-electric AWD drive can speed it along at up to 53 mph (85 km/h) or, in silent mode, at 20 mph (32 km/h), with a range of up to 30 miles (48 km). It can also ford streams of up to 48 in (123 cm) in depth.
In stealth mode, the M1 can act as a reconnaissance unit using high-definition sensors. It can also be something of a sacrificial lamb, going into cluttered terrain or bottlenecks ahead of the ARV to draw enemy fire or to clear obstacles.
However, the M1 is much more than just a pack mule or a scout. Its modular design allows it to be configured as a hard-kill counter-drone weapons platform or a launcher for loitering munitions like the Damocles system that can seek out or even wait in the air for targets before engaging them.
"The M1 technology demonstrator shows the art of the possible for how [sic] [Uncrewed Ground Vehicles (UGVs)] can support the Marine Corps’ missions," said Vice President of Programs, Sara Willett. "Along with Howe & Howe, we took our experience in autonomous robotic systems across land, air and sea – the same domains the Marine Corps’ missions live – to develop this system that demonstrates our ability to scale the [Size, Weight, and Power] up or down, all while maintaining the common robotic core that enables our UGVs to provide exceptional transportability and battlefield agility."

New brain-health screenings coming to all Marines
Kayode Crown
AL.COM

All Marines will undergo a new brain-function test as part of their annual screening this September, Defense News reports.
On Tuesday, Brig. Gen. Sean Hoewing, who heads the Marines’ Risk Management Directorate, told an audience at the Modern Day Marine exposition in Washington, D.C., about the development, according to the publication.
He said the Automated Neuropsychological Assessment Metrics, a computer-based brain-function assessment, would be incorporated into Marines’ periodic health assessments administered by Navy medicine.
The move is to assess the impact of blast exposure and develop mitigation strategies.
Meanwhile, training supervisors have been instructed to take steps to limit potential damage.
“If you’re an instructor on the range today, and you’re observing a Marine using a particular weapon system, we’ve already implemented distance requirements for the observer to be away from that weapon system,” Hoewing said.
“Understanding that the Marine today with weapon systems that we use, many of them, they have to be in close proximity to the weapon,” he added. “But anybody else that’s assisting doesn’t necessarily need to be inside that bubble where there would be danger. So those things are already being implemented.”
Hoewing said that in February, the Corps tested Marines designated “high risk,” such as weapons instructors, range staff and others whose routine work puts them in proximity to overpressure.

Marine Corps faces surging ARG-MEU demand amid fleet strain
Copilot
MSN

U.S. Marine Corps Commandant Gen. Eric Smith says global demand for amphibious ready groups and Marine Expeditionary Units has far exceeded the Navy’s current capacity, with requests nearly double the intended 3.0 presence. The shortfall is compounded by low amphibious ship readiness rates, prompting joint Navy-Marine efforts to extend vessel lifespans and modernize the fleet. Meanwhile, the Corps is advancing autonomous logistics aircraft and barracks upgrades to sustain readiness and quality of life.
Global demand outpaces amphibious fleet
Gen. Eric Smith revealed that requests from multiple U.S. combatant commands for amphibious ready groups and Marine Expeditionary Units are well above the targeted 3.0 presence, nearly doubling it. Current deployments include the 22nd MEU in Operation Southern Spear and the 31st MEU in the Middle East for Operation Epic Fury, with the 11th MEU en route. Smith emphasized ARG-MEUs as the Defense Department’s most flexible tool, but noted the Navy’s 32-ship amphibious fleet is insufficient, with half in poor condition, according to a 2024 GAO report. 
Readiness shortfall sparks joint action
Amphibious ship readiness has fallen to 41%, far below the 80% threshold needed for mission success, according to defense officials. In response, the Navy and Marine Corps are optimizing maintenance, extending ship service lives, and commissioning studies on vessel upgrades such as the Wasp-class. The newly formed Amphibious Force Readiness Board aims to drive immediate action on maintaining, modernizing, and expanding the amphibious fleet, according to Adm. Daryl Caudle. 
Autonomous logistics programs advance
The Marine Corps is moving from concept to procurement for a 2,500-pound-lift autonomous cargo helicopter, designed to operate in contested environments without GPS or communications. The Aerial Logistics Connector program is targeting a 2027 operational demo, with recent autonomous flight tests by industry partners demonstrating obstacle avoidance and safe landings. These systems aim to sustain dispersed forces with ammunition, water, and medical supplies while reducing risks to human crews.
Barracks upgrades boost quality of life
The Corps’ Barracks 2030 initiative, launched after a Department of Defense audit, is renovating and replacing outdated housing to improve service member living conditions and readiness. At Camp Lejeune, nine barracks have been renovated, with ten more under way in a $185 million project affecting 2,000 Marines, and long-term plans to modernize or replace all 160 barracks. Upgrades include individual HVAC systems, more laundry facilities, and modern furnishings to create a home-like environment.

Brain function evaluations to be part of Marine health records
Hope Hodge Seck
The Marine Corps Times

As the U.S. Marine Corps faces congressionally mandated deadlines to evaluate the brain injury impacts of weapons blasts on the force and start implementing mitigation measures, changes are already being made to limit blast exposure in training.
Brig. Gen. Sean Hoewing, head of the Corps’ newly established Risk Management Directorate, told an audience at the Modern Day Marine exposition in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday that, while the impacts of blast exposure and overpressure across time are still being studied, training supervisors have been instructed to take steps to limit prospective damage.
“If you’re an instructor on the range today, and you’re observing a Marine using a particular weapon system, we’ve already implemented distance requirements for the observer to be away from that weapon system,” Hoewing said. “Understanding that the Marine today with weapon systems that we use, many of them, they have to be in close proximity to the weapon. But anybody else that’s assisting doesn’t necessarily need to be inside that bubble where there would be danger. So those things are already being implemented.”
In February, according to Hoewing, the Corps established a baseline evaluation in a computer-based brain function assessment known as the Automated Neuropsychological Assessment Metrics, or ANAM, for all troops designated “high risk,” including weapons instructors, range staff and others whose routine work puts them in proximity to overpressure.
By this September, he said in a presentation, ANAM data would be incorporated into Marines’ periodic health assessments, an annual four-part screening administered by Navy medicine. September 2027 will see baseline ANAM evals complete for all troops.
The Marine Corps is set to evaluate a study on the impacts of blast overpressure at different levels and update the risk threshold — now set at 4 pounds per square inch (PSI) — by September 2029.
“We’re still debating amongst the scientists and medical health professionals, with the periodicity … how frequently we will do those tests from here on out, whether it’s a part of your annual periodic health assessment that most Marines will go through, or whether it’s something that’s, you know, every two years or every three years,” Hoewing said. “In the meantime, our mandate is to get after doing this assessment.”
The Corps has also built a working group, he said, to determine what to do with the information being gathered. Those tasked with building awareness may inform Marines, as well as makers of military equipment and protective gear, of blast risks and thresholds.
Those in the working group from Marine Corps Training and Education Command will have “the largest stake,” Hoewing said, as they’ll have to develop mitigation methods and procedures in a space where avoiding blast exposure altogether isn’t an option.
“There might be policy regarding the use of [personal protective equipment] that would be within our lane,” he said. “But under the mitigation effort, there’s lots of things, whether it’s policy, range, regulations, new weapon systems and whatnot … we are one stakeholder of many in a team effort to make that happen.”
Training aids that allow Marines to build familiarity and proficiency without firing live weapons as often may also be part of the solution, according to an official with Marine Corps Systems Command who chimed in during the briefing.
“Our goal is mitigation without reducing our warfighting capability,” Hoewing said. “I wouldn’t keep anything off the table.”

Marine Corps warns amphibious fleet strain as NATO stance holds
Copilot
Copilot

U.S. Marine Corps Commandant Gen. Eric Smith says combatant commanders are requesting far more amphibious ready groups than the Navy can currently provide, revealing a significant gap in operational capacity. The Navy’s amphibious fleet is aging, with readiness rates far below mission requirements, prompting joint Marine Corps–Navy efforts to extend service lives, modernize ships, and improve maintenance. The warning comes as Pentagon officials clarify they are not planning to reduce U.S. troop levels in Germany, underscoring continued NATO commitments amid global security pressures.
Marine Corps faces surging amphibious demand
Gen. Eric Smith told attendees at the Modern Day Marine event that combatant commanders from Southern, European, Central, and Africa Commands are requesting significantly more amphibious ready groups and Marine Expeditionary Units than the established '3.0 presence' model provides. ARG-MEUs are valued for their flexibility in missions from humanitarian relief to strike operations, but sustaining higher demand is difficult with the current fleet. The Navy’s 32 amphibious ships have a readiness rate of just 41%, well below the 80% target, driving new efforts to extend the life of Wasp-class assault ships and dock landing ships.
Why the amphibious gap and NATO stance matter now
The shortfall in amphibious capacity coincides with ongoing deployments, including MEUs supporting Operation Southern Spear in the Americas and Operation Epic Fury in the Middle East. At the same time, the Pentagon has stated it is not planning any drawdown of the roughly 35,000–40,000 U.S. troops stationed in Germany, despite public discussion of potential reductions. Maintaining NATO troop levels while meeting growing amphibious demands underscores the challenge of balancing global commitments.
Military leaders and allies respond to dual pressures
The Navy and Marine Corps have formed the Amphibious Force Readiness Board to identify concrete actions to improve ship availability, addressing issues from deferred maintenance to workforce shortages. European allies view the U.S. troop presence in Germany as central to NATO’s deterrence posture, making any potential change a strategic concern. The simultaneous requirements to sustain amphibious readiness and uphold alliance commitments highlight the strain on U.S. force posture and resources.
Recent shifts in U.S. military operations and policy
Operational demands on amphibious forces are rising, with current deployments spanning multiple regions and additional MEUs en route to the Middle East. The Navy is studying service life extensions and modernization programs to bridge capability gaps until new ships arrive. These measures, along with a reaffirmed NATO presence, reflect a broader strategy to sustain readiness while managing near-term operational pressures.

First USMC MQ-58 Valkyrie CCA Drones To Arrive In 2029
Thomas Newdick
The War Zone

The U.S. Marine Corps wants to field its first conventional takeoff and landing Collaborative Combat Aircraft (CCA) drones in 2029, and is also looking at the possibility of fielding similar drones with short takeoff and landing capabilities. The news comes soon after the service outlined its plans for Kratos’ XQ-58 Valkyrie, and potentially other CCAs, to be paired with its F-35s as a “bridge” to an entire family of next-generation air combat capabilities, which could include a sixth-generation crewed fighter. You can read more about the implications of that in our previous coverage.
Updates on the latest developments within the Marine Corps’ CCA program were provided by Col. Scott Shadforth, a program manager for the Expeditionary and Maritime Aviation Advanced Development Team (XMA-ADT), at the annual Modern Day Marine conference in Washington, D.C., at which TWZ is in attendance.
The Corps’ CCA efforts currently fall under a program called Marine Air-Ground Task Force (MAGTF) Uncrewed Expeditionary Tactical Aircraft (MUX TACAIR). The MAGTF is the primary organizing concept around which the service deploys air and ground forces.
Shadforth defines the CCA program as “how the Marine Corps is going after increasing the lethality of existing and future tactical aircraft in a high-threat environment.”

The MUX TACAIR effort emerged out of a previous effort that the Marine Corps War Fighting Lab sponsored as part of a Rapid Defense Experimentation Reserve (RDER) with the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD). This earlier program was known as the Penetrating Affordable Autonomous Collaborative Killer — Portfolio (PAACK-P).
The Marine Corps is kicking off its CCA efforts with a landing gear-equipped version of the XQ-58. In contrast, the previous PAACK-P program involved the rocket-assisted takeoff (RATO) variant of the XQ-58. Meanwhile, the MQ-58 designation refers to Marine-specific variants of Kratos’ Valkyrie now in development, although it remains unclear how official this is.
As Shadforth explained, under MUX TACAIR, the Marine Corps is attempting to answer the question: “How do we take that essential [XQ-58] airframe itself and turn it into a conventional takeoff and landing [CTOL] platform so that it’s reusable at a higher rate?”
The OSD effort involved four flights of the XQ-58, culminating in the fall of 2024. At the beginning of this month, the Marine Corps completed a risk-reduction flight involving XQ-58 payloads and integration at China Lake.
Up to this point, the tests have all involved RATO variants of the XQ-58, but the Marines are targeting a first flight using conventional takeoff and landing sometime in the mid- to late summer of this year.
Shadforth confirmed that the “ultimate goal” for the MQ-58 effort is to get its hands on “deliverable prototypes” in the summer of 2029. In an ideal case, he added, these would be delivered to VMX-1 in Yuma, “so the Marine Corps can actually get their hands on the aircraft and fly the aircraft in a tactical environment and develop the CONOPS for how they’re actually going to employ those.”
VMX-1, or Marine Operational Test and Evaluation Squadron One, has multiple aircraft types in its inventory and is responsible for tests and evaluations of all types of Marine aircraft and associated systems, while assisting in the creation of tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs). You can read more about its work here.
MUX TACAIR doesn’t start and end with the MQ-58, however.
Shadforth said that the Marine Corps is currently exploring further MUX TACAIR options with “several vendors,” including General Atomics and Anduril. Meanwhile, the branch is also working with Northrop Grumman as part of the MQ-58 effort.
As to how the CTOL MQ-58 will be best integrated with the fleet of Marine Corps F-35Bs, which feature short takeoff and landing (STOVL) at the heart of their capabilities, this is something the service is still weighing up.
According to Shadforth, the Marine Corps “is always going to be interested” in finding ways for fixed-wing aircraft to operate from shorter runways, suggesting that a STOVL-type CCA could well be part of its future plans. Of course, a return to the RATO-capable MQ-58 could be one way of achieving this.
For now, the Marine CCA effort is squarely focused on the CTOL variant of the Valkyrie, but Shadforth said that it’s also looking toward the future, including “other vendor offerings, whether they exist in reality or not, that remove the need for landing gear.” CCAs that offer either runway independence or that are able to operate from shorter or improvised airstrips represent a capability “the Marine Corps will be interested in exploring,” Shadforth added. One obvious candidate here would be the X-BAT, the jet-powered autonomous stealth ‘fighter’ drone designed to take off vertically and land the same way, tail first, after completing its mission.
At this point, it should be recalled that Kratos said earlier this year that the CTOL version of the Valkyrie being developed for the Marines will still be able to make rocket-assisted takeoffs from static launchers. This means the drone will retain a valuable degree of runway independence, though it will have to touch down on a runway at the end of its sortie.
Before that, Kratos also unveiled a special launch trolley that allows variants of the XQ-58 without landing gear to take off from traditional runways, though not land back on them, as seen in the video below.
An aircraft with some kind of STOVL capabilities “just kind of opens up the world to us, where we don’t need 7,000-, 8,000-, 9,000-, or 10,000-foot paved runways. Those are always capabilities that we’re interested in,” Shadforth said.
Overall, this is a somewhat surprising route, considering that the XQ-58 in its basic form is already runway independent. This would suggest the Marines, in the future, are looking specifically for something that combines STOVL performance with faster sortie rates. After all, the XQ-58 also requires some infrastructure for that and requires a reset time. A STOVL or VTOL type of CCA would also be able to deploy and operate alongside the F-35B more seamlessly.
“As far as how CCA is envisioned integrating with existing STOVL-type platforms, the Marine Corps is kind of on the front end right now of getting CCA out to the operational forces. A lot of that’s going to come through experimentation and evaluation. As we target the 2029 timeframe to get prototypes out to VMX-1, part of their mission set is going to be: now we’ve physically got these things, how are we actually going to employ them with the various tactical aircraft we have available?” he continued.
As well as the STOVL F-35Bs, these tactical aircraft include CTOL/carrier-capable F-35Cs and potentially legacy F/A-18 Hornets, as well as other Joint Force capabilities.
Shadforth continued: “Those are issues that are going to have to be explored and experimented with for how we’re going to see how those CCAs are going to operate. The point being there’s no set solution at the moment.”
In terms of missions, the Marine Corps is initially focusing MUX TACAIR on an “electronic warfare type platform,” Shadforth said. “Those are the payloads we’re interested in looking at at the moment.”
But Shadforth confirmed that other efforts with different vendors are exploring how to use the space within the Valkyrie air vehicle to see what other payloads and capabilities are available to the Marine Corps. Not only usefulness but timeliness are important factors here, Shadforth added.
Kratos is known to be working on a miniature cruise missile called Ragnarok, which the XQ-58 can carry in its internal bay and externally under its wings, and you can read more about it here. Renderings have also shown Valkyries with AIM-120 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles (AMRAAM) under their wings. The drone can carry Small Diameter Bombs (SDB) internally, and has demonstrated drone launch — launched effects are therefore almost certain to be included for the electronic warfare mission.
Within all this, it is important to remember that, at this point, the Marine CCA effort is still very much in the prototyping phase, led by the MQ-58. As Shadforth noted, the service has “not entered into a specific acquisition-type construct yet,” beyond developing these prototypes. Nevertheless, with a timeline now in place to get the first MQ-58s to Yuma, and with conventional takeoff and landing trials expected in the next few months, MUX TACAIR reflects the overall acceleration of the Corps’ CCA program.

Marines in hot barracks getting portable air conditioners
Jeff Schogol
Task & Purpose

Officials said 128 barracks across the force, housing almost 20,000 Marines, do not have permanent air conditioning. Many have portable air conditioners.
As the hot summer months approach, nearly 20,000 Marines live in barracks that lack permanent air conditioning. While plans are underway for a Corps-wide overhaul of barracks that will include climate control systems, many Marines will continue to get relief this summer with portable air conditioning units, Sgt. Maj. of the Marine Corps Calros Ruiz said this week.
Marine Corps officials have authorized local commanders to purchase portable air conditioning units for Marines whose buildings lack good central air systems. Officials have identified 128 barracks across the force that do not have permanent conditioning, most at Camp Pendleton, California. Many of those barracks have portable air conditioners as a temporary solution.
“The temporary fix of [issuing] portables is continuing everywhere that’s needed,” Ruiz said on Tuesday during a media roundtable at the Modern Day Marine exhibition in Washington, D.C. “Commands will buy them. The Marines don’t have to buy them. They shouldn’t be buying them.”`
Ruiz said officials at the Camp Horno area of Camp Pendleton, where August temperatures routinely hit the 90s and months pass without rain, have been buying portable air conditioners so that Marines do not have to pay out of pocket for them.
The portable air conditioners are an interim solution for barracks, which commands are buying as their budgets allow, Ruiz said. 
Across the force, a total of 19,600 Marines live in barracks that do not have permanent air conditioning, Marine Corps officials told Task & Purpose.
Officials are looking at which barracks need new air ducts and pipework installed to allow cool air to flow through the buildings, Ruiz said.
“The long term portion is deciding what barracks gets piping, because that’s the most expensive part,” Ruiz said.
A Corps-wide push for better barracks
The Marine Corps is in the midst of “Barracks 2030,” a multiyear plan to improve enlisted Marines’ living conditions, which includes providing barracks with air conditioning. The 11-year effort is expected to cost $30 billion to renovate and replace substandard barracks, according to Assistant Marine Corps Commandant Bradford J. Gering recent written testimony to Congress.
“In the last fiscal year, we completed four new barracks, began construction on eight others, awarded renovations for an additional 27 and outfitted 159 barracks with new furnishings,” Gering told lawmakers during an April 15 House Armed Services Committee Hearing on military readiness.
But Marines and other service members continue to live in barracks where air conditioning is either absent or broken, said Army veteran Rob Evans, creator of the Hots & Cots app on which military members post problems with on-base facilities.
“Roughly 10% of barracks reviews in our dataset involve [Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning] or cooling failures, and the resolution rate is near zero,” Evans told Task & Purpose. “The pattern is consistent: extreme indoor temperatures, work orders ignored, and maintenance offices citing seasonal policies that override actual conditions. We’ve seen cases where service members end up sleeping outside or in their cars to escape the heat.”
The Defense Department’s proposed budget for next fiscal year calls for spending $57 billion on military installations, including $8.8 billion for barracks improvements, such as heating and air conditioning repairs.

Bell's cruise missile-armed tiltrotor could transform Marine strike operations
C. da Costa
Gadget Review
This isn’t your grandfather’s attack helicopter. Bell’s MV-75A Cheyenne II concept packs cruise missiles and a thousand-nautical-mile reach that makes current Marine rotorcraft look like golf carts. Unveiled at the Modern Day Marine conference, this armed tiltrotor could replace both the AH-1Z Viper and UH-1Y Venom with a single platform that strikes targets far beyond helicopter range.
Weapons Package Built for Distributed Warfare
Stub wings carry ship-killing missiles alongside swarms of loitering munitions.
Bell’s concept tells the story through its stub wings-Naval Strike Missiles on the left side for anti-ship strikes, Precision Attack Strike Munitions on the right for land targets. Your conventional attack helicopter can’t touch this firepower diversity. Common Launch Tube apertures dot the fuselage like a high-tech honeycomb, firing ALTIUS-700M loitering munitions that hunt targets independently.
The landing gear sponsons double as launch platforms, turning every flight into a potential drone-swarming mission. Stub wings remain compatible with AGM-114 Hellfire missiles or APKWS II rockets for close support when needed.
Speed and Range Rewrite the Playbook
Airplane-mode firing capability extends Marine reach across entire ocean basins.
Traditional helicopters force Marines to operate within spitting distance of targets. This aircraft flips that script with internal fuel capacity enabling strikes over 1,000 nautical miles after short takeoff. You can fire weapons in airplane mode-imagine launching cruise missiles while cruising at 300 knots instead of hovering like a sitting duck.
The nose-mounted M197/XM915 20mm Gatling cannon and electro-optical sensors provide close-range punch when needed. A retractable refueling probe extends operational reach even further.
Future Attack Strike Program Eyes Everything
Marine leadership considers manned, unmanned, and tiltrotor options for legacy helicopter replacement.
The Future Attack Strike program represents Marine Corps evolution beyond traditional rotorcraft limitations. “Everything is on the table… manned, unmanned, tiltrotor,” according to Col. Scott Shadforth from NAVAIR. Bell’s Bill Hendricks emphasizes the operational transformation: “Now you have additional range, speed, more operational flexibility.”
This concept builds on the Army’s FLRAA selection from 2022, adapting transport-focused technology for precision strike missions.
Bell’s concept signals Marines preparing for Pacific conflicts where helicopter ranges doom missions before they start. Combining tiltrotor speed with cruise missile reach creates new operational possibilities that conventional rotorcraft simply cannot match.

Marine Corps to add annual brain-function tests for all personnel
Copilot
Copilot
Starting in September, all Marines will undergo annual computer-based brain-function testing to detect the effects of blast exposure. The Automated Neuropsychological Assessment Metrics will be part of regular health checks conducted by Navy medicine. The initiative reflects growing military and medical focus on neurological health, amid rising awareness of brain-related conditions nationwide.
Marine Corps launches brain-function screening program
Brig. Gen. Sean Hoewing announced that all Marines will begin annual brain-function testing in September, using the Automated Neuropsychological Assessment Metrics system. Integrated into periodic health assessments by Navy medicine, the tests aim to track and mitigate the effects of blast exposure. Training supervisors have also been instructed to take proactive measures to reduce potential brain damage risks. 
Neurological conditions affect over half of Americans
A comprehensive analysis by the American Academy of Neurology and the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation found that 54% of the U.S. population—over 180 million people—live with a neurological disease or disorder. Conditions range from ADHD and migraines to Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s. Experts call the findings an urgent call to accelerate research and improve prevention and treatment strategies.
Advances in nervous system therapies
Recent research into repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) shows it can increase synaptic turnover in dementia models, potentially improving brain function in affected individuals. In parallel, engineers at POSTECH developed a spinal cord stimulator that is rigid during insertion but softens upon contact with bodily fluids, allowing it to conform closely to neural tissue. Both approaches reflect the growing exploration of targeted interventions to address neurological disorders and improve patient outcomes.
Educational tools for mastering neuroanatomy
A range of high-yield resources—from detailed anatomy notes to mnemonic-driven learning platforms—are helping students and professionals deepen their understanding of the nervous system. These tools cover topics like cranial nerves, motor and sensory systems, and neurophysiology, offering practical study aids for exams and clinical application. Such educational frameworks could support military medical personnel in interpreting and acting on brain-function test results. 

Marine Corps says it may need 40 amphibious ships
Copilot
Copilot
Marine Lt. Gen. Jay Bargeron said the Marine Corps will likely need around 40 amphibious warfare ships—eight more than the current fleet—to maintain three Marine Expeditionary Units deployed at once. The Navy now has 32 such ships, but fewer than half are ready to deploy, hampering crisis response. The services are also extending ship service lives, including adding five years to USS Wasp, to help meet operational demands while new vessels are built.
USS Wasp to serve until 2034 after Navy grants five-year extension
The Navy has approved a five-year service life extension for the USS Wasp, the lead Wasp-class amphibious assault ship, pushing its retirement to 2034. Officials are studying whether similar extensions are feasible for other amphibious assault and dock landing ships, aiming to stretch service lives from 40 to 50 years. This effort is part of a broader plan to sustain readiness amid mechanical issues and low availability across the amphibious fleet.
Why the extension matters for Marine Corps deployment goals
Marine Corps leadership has prioritized maintaining a '3.0' presence—three Marine Expeditionary Units deployed at all times—to provide rapid, forward-deployed crisis response. Lt. Gen. Jay Bargeron said achieving this requires about 40 amphibious warfare ships, up from the current 32. Extending ship service life, as with USS Wasp, is intended to help maintain capacity while awaiting the arrival of new America-class and San Antonio-class vessels funded in future defense budgets. 
Calls for more amphibious ships gain urgency
Bargeron described the statutory minimum of 31 amphibious ships as a baseline rather than a target, noting that requests from combatant commands have exceeded the Corps’ goal of three deployed MEUs. He cited data from recent years showing demand closer to the equivalent of six MEUs, underscoring the need for additional ships. Navy Vice Adm. John Skillman said the required number is higher than 31, though the final figure is still being determined. 
A fleet under pressure: readiness rates and modernization efforts
Only about 45% of amphibious warfare ships are 'combat surge ready,' compared to 63% for surface ships and 65% for submarines. This low readiness has led to missed deployments, such as the 22nd MEU’s inability to reach Europe before Russia’s 2022 invasion of Ukraine due to maintenance delays. Modernization plans include extending ship service lives and securing funding for new vessels, while studies are underway to assess the condition of dock landing ships for potential upgrades.

US Marine Corps littoral combat teams: Taiwan island defense
Anant Gupta
Navy Media
The waters surrounding Taiwan have become one of the world’s most strategically critical flashpoints. As tensions between the United States and China continue to escalate, the U.S. Marine Corps has fundamentally transformed its approach to Pacific warfare. Gone are the days of large-scale amphibious assaults and massive beach landings. Instead, the Corps has embraced a radical new strategy: deploying small, lethal, and highly mobile units across the island chains that guard the approaches to Taiwan.
These units, known as Marine Littoral Regiments (MLRs), represent the most significant shift in Marine Corps doctrine since World War II. Designed specifically for island defense scenarios and potential Taiwan contingencies, these specialized formations are reshaping how America projects power in the Indo-Pacific. Their mission is deceptively simple yet incredibly complex: spread across hundreds of small islands and atolls, creating an interlocking web of sensors, missiles, and Marines that can deny China’s navy access to critical sea lanes.
The urgency behind this transformation cannot be overstated. Military analysts increasingly view a Chinese attempt to seize Taiwan as a matter of “when,” not “if.” In response, the Marine Corps has essentially reinvented itself, trading heavy equipment and large formations for speed, stealth, and precision firepower distributed across the vast Pacific theater.
The Strategic Imperative: Taiwan and the First Island Chain
The geography of the western Pacific tells the story of why U.S. Marine Corps Littoral Combat Teams have become so crucial. Taiwan sits at the heart of what military strategists call the “First Island Chain” — a natural barrier of islands stretching from Japan through the Philippines that has historically contained Chinese naval forces within the South China Sea.
For China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA), breaking through this island chain represents the key to becoming a true global naval power. For the United States and its allies, maintaining control of these strategic chokepoints means preserving the free flow of commerce and deterring Chinese aggression. The Luzon Strait, the narrow waterway between Taiwan and the Philippines, handles over $3.4 trillion in global trade annually.
Traditional American military responses to a Taiwan crisis have focused on deploying massive carrier strike groups and amphibious ready groups — essentially trying to match China’s growing naval power with overwhelming American firepower. But this approach faces a critical problem: China’s home field advantage. Operating close to Chinese shores means facing thousands of land-based missiles, submarines, and aircraft that can potentially overwhelm even the most sophisticated American naval defenses.
The Marine Corps realized that fighting China’s strength with strength was a losing proposition. Instead, they needed to leverage America’s advantages: superior technology, better training, and most importantly, a network of allied nations willing to host small, distributed American forces across their territory.
Force Design 2030: The Birth of the MLR
The creation of U.S. Marine Corps Littoral Combat Teams didn’t happen overnight. It emerged from Force Design 2030, the most comprehensive restructuring of the Marine Corps since its founding. Commandant General David Berger recognized that the Corps’ traditional role as America’s 911 force needed updating for an era of great power competition.
Force Design 2030 called for divesting the Marine Corps of capabilities designed for Middle Eastern counterinsurgency — tanks, heavy artillery, and large infantry formations — in favor of smaller, more agile units optimized for maritime operations. The plan eliminated entire tank battalions, reduced infantry units, and redirected resources toward anti-ship missiles, long-range precision fires, and advanced reconnaissance capabilities.
This wasn’t just organizational reshuffling. It represented a fundamental philosophical shift from projecting power inland to controlling maritime domains. The Marine Corps acknowledged that future conflicts would likely be fought not on land, but for control of the seas and the strategic islands that dominate key waterways.
Marine Littoral Regiments emerged as the cornerstone of this transformation. Unlike traditional Marine units designed for sustained land combat, MLRs were specifically created for what military planners call “distributed maritime operations” — spreading small, lethal teams across numerous islands to create multiple dilemmas for potential adversaries.
Anatomy of a Marine Littoral Regiment
A typical Marine Littoral Regiment contains approximately 2,000 Marines organized into three specialized battalions, each designed for specific aspects of island warfare. This structure reflects hard lessons learned from decades of Pacific operations and represents one of the most innovative military organizational concepts of the 21st century.
Littoral Combat Team: The Sharp End of the Spear
The Littoral Combat Team serves as the MLR’s primary striking force. These units combine traditional Marine infantry skills with cutting-edge anti-ship and surveillance capabilities. Each team can operate independently for extended periods, establishing temporary bases on remote islands and conducting reconnaissance, surveillance, and precision strikes against enemy naval forces.
What makes these teams unique is their dual nature. They function simultaneously as elite reconnaissance units and as missile-armed tank killers adapted for naval warfare. A single Littoral Combat Team can establish positions on a seemingly insignificant island and suddenly pose a significant threat to any naval force attempting to transit nearby waters.
Littoral Anti-Air Battalion: Protecting the Network
The Littoral Anti-Air Battalion addresses one of the most critical vulnerabilities in distributed operations: air defense. Operating on small, isolated islands means these units cannot rely on traditional air cover. Instead, they must provide their own protection against enemy aircraft and missiles.
These battalions deploy sophisticated air defense systems specifically chosen for mobility and rapid deployment. Their mission extends beyond simple force protection to creating air defense umbrellas that protect not just Marine positions, but also allied facilities and civilian populations on host nation territory.
Littoral Logistics Battalion: The Lifeline
Perhaps the most innovative component of Marine Littoral Regiments is the Littoral Logistics Battalion. Traditional military logistics assumes secure supply lines and established bases. Distributed maritime operations offer neither. Instead, these specialized units must sustain combat operations across hundreds of miles of contested ocean, often using unconventional methods and routes.
These battalions represent a complete rethinking of military sustainment. They employ everything from autonomous underwater vehicles to disguised civilian vessels to keep distributed forces supplied with ammunition, fuel, food, and critical spare parts.
Expeditionary Advanced Base Operations: The MLR’s Operational Doctrine
The tactical employment of U.S. Marine Corps Littoral Combat Teams follows a doctrine called Expeditionary Advanced Base Operations (EABO). This concept envisions Marines operating from temporary bases established on small islands, atolls, and coastal areas within contested maritime domains.
EABO fundamentally challenges traditional military thinking about forward bases. Instead of establishing large, permanent installations that require massive logistics and defensive investments, EABO calls for small, temporary positions that can be rapidly established, effectively employed, and quickly abandoned if necessary.
The “island hopping” concept that defined American Pacific strategy in World War II has been completely reimagined for modern warfare. Instead of seizing islands as stepping stones toward enemy territory, Marines now use islands as sensor and missile platforms to deny enemy forces access to critical maritime areas. The goal isn’t to hold territory permanently, but to create temporary zones of control that force adversaries to alter their operations or risk significant losses.
Distributed maritime operations amplify this effect by creating multiple simultaneous threats across vast ocean areas. An enemy naval commander facing a potential Taiwan scenario wouldn’t confront a single large American fleet, but dozens of small, hidden positions capable of launching precision strikes. Each island with a Marine presence becomes a potential threat that must be neutralized or avoided, greatly complicating enemy planning and operations.
Key Capabilities and Weapon Systems
The effectiveness of U.S. Marine Corps Littoral Combat Teams depends heavily on their advanced weapon systems, each specifically chosen for the unique challenges of distributed maritime operations.
Anti-Ship Warfare: NMESIS
The Naval Strike Missile Expeditionary Ship Interdiction System (NMESIS) represents the cutting edge of Marine anti-ship capabilities. This truck-mounted system can engage enemy vessels at ranges exceeding 100 miles, using advanced guidance systems that make it extremely difficult to intercept or jam.
What makes NMESIS particularly effective in Taiwan scenarios is its ability to operate from concealed positions on small islands. A single NMESIS system, properly positioned, can threaten enemy naval forces across vast areas of ocean. The missiles are specifically designed to defeat modern naval air defense systems through sophisticated flight profiles and electronic countermeasures.
Anti-Air Defense: MADIS
The Marine Air Defense Integrated System (MADIS) provides MLRs with sophisticated protection against enemy aircraft and unmanned systems. Mounted on joint light tactical vehicles, MADIS combines multiple sensor systems with both kinetic and electronic warfare capabilities to defeat a wide range of aerial threats.
In distributed operations, MADIS serves a dual purpose. It protects Marine positions from enemy air attack while also providing early warning for other friendly forces in the area. The system’s counter-drone capabilities are particularly important given the proliferation of unmanned systems in modern warfare.
Precision Fires: HIMARS
The High Mobility Artillery Rocket System (HIMARS) gives Marine Littoral Regiments the ability to engage targets across multiple domains. While traditionally viewed as an artillery system, HIMARS in Marine service can engage both land and naval targets with precision-guided munitions.
Recent exercises have demonstrated HIMARS’ capability to engage moving ships at significant ranges, effectively turning each system into a coastal defense battery. The system’s mobility allows Marines to rapidly reposition after firing, making it extremely difficult for enemies to target in return.
Reconnaissance and Communications
Advanced reconnaissance and communication capabilities form the nervous system of distributed operations. Marine Littoral Regiments employ a combination of traditional intelligence gathering, unmanned systems, and sophisticated communication networks to coordinate operations across vast distances.
These systems must operate in heavily contested electromagnetic environments where traditional military communications may be jammed or intercepted. Marines increasingly rely on commercial satellite networks, mesh networking technologies, and artificial intelligence to maintain connectivity and share critical intelligence.
MLR Deployments and Exercises in the Indo-Pacific
Current deployments of U.S. Marine Corps Littoral Combat Teams focus heavily on the First Island Chain, with particular emphasis on locations that could prove critical in Taiwan contingencies. The 3rd Marine Littoral Regiment, based in Hawaii, regularly deploys elements to Okinawa, including positions on Ishigaki Island, just 170 miles from Taiwan.
These deployments aren’t just symbolic. Marines regularly conduct live-fire exercises with NMESIS and other advanced weapon systems, demonstrating their ability to threaten enemy naval forces attempting to transit critical waterways like the Miyako Strait and Luzon Strait.
Balikatan 2024 and Joint Operations
The annual Balikatan exercise between American and Philippine forces has become a crucial testing ground for MLR concepts. During Balikatan 2024, U.S. Marines and their Philippine counterparts conducted joint operations to defend strategic island groups located just 125 miles from Taiwan’s coast.
These exercises test not just American capabilities, but also the critical host nation support required for successful distributed operations. Philippine forces provide local knowledge, logistics support, and political legitimacy that makes extended Marine operations possible.
Allied Integration
Success of U.S. Marine Corps Littoral Combat Teams depends heavily on allied cooperation. Japan’s willingness to host American forces on its southwestern islands provides critical positioning for Taiwan scenarios. Similarly, Philippine cooperation in the Luzon Strait area offers Marines access to strategic chokepoints that Chinese naval forces must traverse.
This allied integration goes beyond simple basing rights. Marines train regularly with Japanese Self-Defense Forces and Philippine military units, developing interoperable procedures and shared intelligence capabilities. These relationships provide both tactical advantages and political legitimacy for American operations in the region.
Strategic Impact and Deterrence
The deployment of U.S. Marine Corps Littoral Combat Teams across the First Island Chain creates what military strategists call “integrated deterrence.” Rather than relying solely on the threat of massive retaliation, this approach presents potential adversaries with multiple layers of resistance that make aggression costly and uncertain.
In Taiwan contingency scenarios, MLRs serve multiple deterrent functions. Their anti-ship capabilities threaten any naval force attempting to establish a blockade or conduct an invasion. Their distributed nature means that eliminating the threat requires extensive time and resources, during which other American and allied forces can respond. Perhaps most importantly, their presence demonstrates American commitment to regional allies and the principle of free navigation.
The psychological effect of MLR deployments may prove as important as their tactical capabilities. Chinese military planners must now account for dozens of potential missile positions across hundreds of islands, greatly complicating invasion planning and resource allocation. Every island becomes a potential threat that must be surveilled, analyzed, and potentially neutralized.
Challenges and the Road Ahead
Despite their promise, U.S. Marine Corps Littoral Combat Teams face significant challenges that could limit their effectiveness in actual conflict scenarios.
Logistical Complexity
Sustaining distributed forces across vast ocean distances represents one of the most complex logistical challenges in modern warfare. Traditional military supply chains assume predictable routes and secure bases. MLRs require innovative approaches to everything from ammunition resupply to medical evacuation.
The Marine Corps is experimenting with autonomous supply vessels, pre-positioned supplies on allied territory, and innovative camouflage techniques for supply operations. However, these solutions remain largely theoretical and untested in actual combat conditions.
Technological Evolution
The rapid pace of technological change means that today’s advanced capabilities may become obsolete quickly. Chinese military modernization specifically targets American advantages in precision weapons and communications technology. MLRs must continuously adapt to maintain their effectiveness against evolving threats.
Political and Diplomatic Hurdles
The success of distributed operations depends heavily on host nation cooperation, which can change rapidly due to political developments. Elections in allied countries, shifts in public opinion, or Chinese diplomatic pressure could potentially deny Marines access to critical basing areas.
Furthermore, the presence of American military forces on small islands near potential conflict zones raises questions about escalation and civilian safety that have yet to be fully addressed.
A New Era for Marine Corps Littoral Warfare
U.S. Marine Corps Littoral Combat Teams represent more than just another military reorganization — they embody a fundamental shift in how America approaches Pacific security in an era of great power competition. By distributing small, lethal units across the island chains that define Pacific geography, the Marine Corps has created a deterrent capability that leverages America’s technological advantages while minimizing exposure to Chinese strengths.
The effectiveness of this concept will ultimately depend on factors beyond pure military capability: allied cooperation, technological adaptation, and the political will to sustain complex, distributed operations over extended periods. However, early deployments and exercises suggest that MLRs offer a viable path forward for maintaining American influence and allied security in an increasingly contested region.
As tensions in the Taiwan Strait continue to escalate, these specialized Marine units may well represent the difference between deterrence and conflict, between regional stability and catastrophic war. Their success or failure will likely define the future of American military strategy in the Pacific for decades to come.
Frequently Asked Questions
What makes Marine Littoral Regiments different from traditional Marine units?
MLRs are specifically designed for distributed maritime operations rather than traditional amphibious assaults. They’re smaller, more mobile, and equipped with advanced anti-ship and anti-air weapons systems. Unlike conventional Marines who focus on seizing and holding territory, MLRs establish temporary positions to control maritime areas and then move to new locations.
How many Marine Littoral Regiments currently exist?
The Marine Corps plans to establish three MLRs total. The 3rd Marine Littoral Regiment became operational in 2022 and is based in Hawaii. Additional regiments are planned for the Atlantic and Pacific theaters, though exact timelines depend on funding and Force Design 2030 implementation progress.
What role do allies play in MLR operations?
Allied cooperation is absolutely critical for MLR success. Countries like Japan and the Philippines provide basing rights, local support, and political legitimacy for American operations. Without allied cooperation, Marines cannot access the strategic islands necessary for effective distributed operations.
Can MLRs operate independently without naval support?
While MLRs are designed for greater independence than traditional Marine units, they still require periodic resupply and support from naval and air forces. Their logistics battalions can extend operational periods significantly, but complete independence from other military branches isn’t realistic in extended conflict scenarios.
How do MLRs communicate across vast Pacific distances?
MLRs employ a combination of satellite communications, mesh networking technologies, and commercial communication systems to maintain connectivity. They’re specifically designed to operate in contested electromagnetic environments where traditional military communications might be jammed or intercepted.
What weapons systems do MLRs use against ships?
The primary anti-ship weapon is NMESIS (Naval Strike Missile Expeditionary Ship Interdiction System), which can engage targets over 100 miles away. MLRs also employ HIMARS rocket systems that can be configured for anti-ship missions, along with various smaller missile and sensor systems.

The sights of Modern Day Marine 2026
Breaking Defense Staff
Breaking Defense

Check out a selection of photos from the Modern Day Marine show floor.
WASHINGTON — Couldn’t personally attend the annual gathering of Marines and defense industry reps hawking their latest wares at Modern Day Marine 2026? Don’t worry, Breaking Defense has your back.
The conference, set in the sprawling Washington Convention Center, featured prime contractors wheeling in full-sized armored vehicles or models of aerial drones to smaller firms presenting bespoke systems. Check out a few sights from the show floor below.
Heavy vehicle producer Oshkosh rolled in its MTRV 4×4 for Modern Day Marine 2026. (Breaking Defense)
A Modern Day Marine attendees tests his skills at a virtual firing range. (Breaking Defense)
Anduril took the opportunity at Modern Day Marine to display a model of its Omen drone, what it calls a “runway independent” Group 3 system. (Breaking Defense)
At General Atomics’ booth at Modern Day Marine 2026 is a Long Range Maneuvering Projectile, what the company calls a “next-generation” artillery round. (Breaking Defense)
At Boeing’s booth at Modern Day Marine 2026, a medium-sized quadcopter drone appears to take a piggyback ride on a fixed wing unmanned system. (Breaking Defense)
Israel Aerospace Industries displayed a range of unmanned aerial systems at Modern Day Marine 2026. (Breaking Defense)
AM General’s Unmanned Ground Vehicle was seen at Modern Day Marine kitted out with heavy weaponry. (Breaking Defense)
Small arms-maker Heckler and Koch display a range of rifles for Marines at MDM 2026. (Breaking Defense)
Wargamers test their logistical and battle management skills at Modern Day Marine 2026. (Breaking Defense)

USMC To Return to a 3.0 ARG MEU
Nuray Taylor
AFCEA | Signal Media

General Eric Smith speaks about his current top priority for the USMC at the Modern Day Marine conference.
The U.S. Marine Corps (USMC) is returning to a 3.0 amphibious ready group/marine expeditionary unit (ARG MEU) presence, said Gen. Eric Smith, the 39th USMC commandant.
“That means one ARG MEU constantly deployed off the East Coast, one constantly deployed off the West Coast, and the 31st MEU episodically deployed out of Okinawa, Japan, setting the theater, accelerating modernization and lethality, and building and sustaining a lethal force, meaning people,” Smith said on the final day of the annual Modern Day Marine conference in Washington, D.C.
The Pentagon and the U.S. Navy are in full support of the USMC permanently returning to a 3.0 ARG MEU presence, the general said.
“This is our number one priority, and it remains my personal north star as a commandant,” Smith stressed, also stating that 31 amphibious ships are not sufficient to meet his goal.
Therefore, his team is pursuing three lines of effort to increase the USMC amphibious force.
1. The USMC is optimizing maintenance schedules and force-generation models to enhance the use of already existing ships.
2. Targeted investments and service life extensions are being made to keep the current fleet ready and relevant for an extended period of time. Additionally, some ships will be decommissioned.
3. The fleet is moving forward to procure newer ships to solidify the defense industrial base of the shipbuilding industry.
“The president’s budget for fiscal year 2027 represents a significant and welcome down payment on this effort,” Smith stated.

New PAE Marine Corps will put ‘jet fuel’ on Project Dynamis
Mark Pomerleau
Breaking Defense

The creation of a Corps-wide Portfolio Acquisition Executive will bridge the Valley of Death when it comes to capabilities being tested as part of Project Dynamis.
WASHINGTON — The April 10 establishment of the Marine Corps’ portfolio acquisition executive will “put jet fuel” on the service’s Project Dynamis series, leading to actual acquisition decisions, according to the project’s director.
“We’re in this really cool situation where we have some key leaders in place that are big idea folks, they set culture to change things, they set culture to collaborate, guys like … PAE Marine Corps … which is, for Project Dynamis, is like literally, a gift just dropped from the sky,” Col. Arlon Smith said in an interview at the Modern Day Marine expo.
“Because a lot of the structure of this project was pre-PAE to move fast, now we’re going to be able to put jet fuel on this. When I say that, I mean in terms of our acquisition decisions coming out.”
Project Dynamis is the Corps’ contribution to the Pentagon-wide Combined Joint All-Domain Command and Control effort to connect “sensors to shooters” across the entire battlespace, from all the services and key international partners. It consists of incremental events, dubbed serials, and looks at how to improve command and control using existing capabilities in new ways.
The new PAE structure will help to bridge the dreaded Valley of Death for capabilities, Smith said, given there is now a portfolio executive to look at these capabilities, break down the silos that previously existed, and make a decision. Now, with fewer silos, if a capability that is demonstrated is believed to be ready for primetime, it can be elevated to the executive level and an acquisition decision can be quickly made.
Smith said they expect to see a series of decisions on hardware and software coming out of the serials to be funded through current program of record lines.
The Dynamis series, Smith explained, is more of an acceleration venue given everything they’re working with is mature technology or an existing program. Dynamis aims to use existing funds for capabilities to inform the relevant program office how to use those capabilities differently.
“I think this project is going to help us prioritize that resourcing to really get after what’s the key capabilities we need to fill, the key value proposition that we’re providing to the joint force commanders,” he said, adding they’re trying to bring concepts to life. “A marine sitting on a [Ultra-Light Tactical Vehicle], little dune buggy in the South China Sea on an island, literally has the tech they need to be able to fill that function that is so needed in the theater today.”
Smith said they had their first one-star level executive steering group meeting last week, previewing five recommendations for hardware and software capabilities, with the expectation those will go to the three-star level likely the first week of June.
While he declined to elaborate on the specifics of those capabilities recommended, as to not get ahead of any potential decisions, he noted that one area they’re looking at pertains to the burning need coming from the fleet to operate with unclassified data.
“The ability to coordinate with mission partners, the ability to take a maritime sensor, commercial radar, think, example, and ingest that data. How do we get that data into our systems so we can use that for battlespace awareness, for example,” he said.
The Marine Corps Tactical Systems Support Activity (MCTSSA), as well as the Army, have been working for years to develop what’s called a sensitive but unclassified-encrypted (SBU-E) architecture. There is a recognition that at the tactical edge, certain information is perishable, meaning even if the enemy gains access to it, it’ll be too late to act on. This frees up burdensome classification restrictions on communications, data and architectures to allow forces to communicate in an unclassified, but still encrypted, manner, which not only has blue force implications, but drastically improves interoperability with partner forces.
“I think the goodness of what he’s talking about with the SBU-E is we focus heavily on the mission partners environment and how to integrate that type of data and information, but it’s also our own unclass sensors and how do you enrich the higher echelon with some unclass sensors,” Col. Chris McGuire, director of operations at MCTSSA, said in an interview. “SBU-E could be an option to better integrate and network those devices and then publish a higher echelons C2 architecture or common operational picture with that data off of an SBU-E network.”

With unmanned systems in the forefront, Marine Corps evolves how it operates
Michael Marrow
Breaking Defense

Marines could begin operational testing with drone wingmen in 2029, and in the future could conduct their own intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance missions in lieu of contractors, officials said during the Modern Day Marine conference in Washington.
WASHINGTON — Drones will change the way the Marine Corps operates, officials said during the Modern Day Marine conference here this week, including in separate roles like unmanned wingmen and aerial reconnaissance that can reduce reliance on contractors.
One key new Marine Corps unmanned program on the horizon, an effort to field drone wingmen for fighter jets, should get hardware in the hands of troops before the end of the decade, according to Cunningham Group Branch Head Col. Richard Rusnok. The Cunningham Group, whose analysis informs key Marine Corps aviation programs, also provides input on the service’s Collaborative Combat Aircraft (CCA) effort.
The Marine Corps earlier this year picked Kratos’s XQ-58 Valkyrie as part of a team led by Northrop Grumman for the first round of the service’s CCA program, called Marine Air-Ground Task Force Uncrewed Expeditionary Tactical Aircraft (MUX TACAIR). The Marines are now working with the contractors to put landing gear on the aircraft for conventional takeoff and landing operations, Rusnok said Wednesday.
“We are going to, over the next couple years, do the developmental test to make sure that the air vehicle itself in that configuration is safe and effective to fly. And then we are working to put the mission systems into the airplane. So that will be an effort over the next two or three years to work through the developmental test milestones,” he said.
The drone will then undergo operational testing with the Marine Corps VMX-1 test squadron starting in “about 2029” before being fielded for combat. A separate Marine Corps official first disclosed that timeline in an address on Monday.
“We’re going to start out small, work our way up,” Rusnok said. “We are opening up an entirely new realm in Marine aviation here, and I think this is potentially as seismic as what we did when we introduced rotary wing aircraft to the fleet back in the 1950s.”
Like budding programs for the Air Force and Navy, the Marine Corps expects its CCA drones to operate in tandem with manned aircraft like fighters. The unmanned wingmen are envisioned to serve roles like lugging extra missiles to battle or carrying additional sensors to help improve battlespace awareness, and are expected to be cheaper than manned aircraft. 
Marine Corps Surveillance: No More COCO?
During a separate presentation Wednesday, Marine Corps Maj. Michael Zbonack said drones could herald a different evolution — this time in ISR (intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance), which he said the service is currently reliant on contractors to conduct, typically through contractor-owned, contractor-operated (COCO) arrangements.
In the coming years, however, Zbonack said the the service should be able move away from the COCO model to do its own or “organic” ISR due to “return to Group 3 UAS [unmanned aerial system] operations,” referring to mid-size drones. The drones can “provide persistent overhead coverage for Marines on the ground,” he said, citing “value propositions” like scalable production and austere launch and recovery operations. 
In response to a question from Breaking Defense, Zbonack said in the “short term” services look like “continued COCO support.” The Navy and Marine Corps have previously issued awards for drone-based ISR services, and the US military has also used manned, contractor-operated aircraft for those missions — such as one aircraft that crashed in the Philippines last year, killing four aboard including one Marine.
Technological leaps should play out over the next few years, Zbonack said, which can help facilitate the Marines’ organic ISR vision. At that point, officials will survey what’s available to determine “whether or not we want to acquire a specific system.”
Zbonack additionally said the Marine Corps has a binding aspiration across its unmanned platforms: a common controller software solution, which would ideally allow troops to hand off operating the drone to one another based on battlefield dynamics. The Marine Corps is on a “campaign of learning” with industry for how that approach might be implemented, emphasizing that eschewing “vendor lock” will be a key objective.
“We don’t want bespoke solutions,” Lt. Col. Ben Link, who heads the Cunningham Group’s future vertical takeoff and landing concepts, said beside Zbonack. “The open architecture behind that, to add, drop, change and manipulate, is going to be really important in the future.”

Navy, Marine Corps weighing force generation model revamp for amphibs
Diana Stancy
Breaking Defense

Navy and Marine Corps leaders said they are considering shaking up the 36-month Optimized Fleet Response plan, in lieu of a longer cycle that can accommodate two deployments.
WASHINGTON — The Navy and the Marine Corps are eying a revamp of the force generation model for amphibious vessels as the services continue to work in tandem to improve the ships’ readiness, the Chief of Naval Operations said today.
The Navy currently employs a 36-month Optimized Fleet Response Plan for amphibious ships to accommodate maintenance, training, and seven-month long deployments. But shaking up this model could “kill the overhead of the phases of the force generation cycle that don’t add significantly to getting it ready for its next deployment,” Adm. Daryl Caudle said at the Modern Day Marine exposition today. 
“What I can do today is go make our force generation more efficient,” Caudle said. “And so some of those things that need to be looked at, instead of a one deployment in every 36-month — which is really probably closer to 40-month cycle — can I get two deployments, and kind of a 50, 52-month cycle, and do two deployments within a cycle?”
The Department of the Navy is required to maintain a fleet of at least 31 amphibious ships, but leaders from both services have said that more are required to meet demand. While acquiring more amphibious ships is a time intensive endeavor, changes like altering the force generation model could allow the current fleet to operate more effectively, according to service leaders. 
“So you reduce the overhead, so you will gain some efficiency,” Caudle said. 
Lt. Gen. Jay Bargeron, the Marine Corps’ deputy commandant for plans, policies and operations, voiced similar sentiments and told reporters Wednesday that the services are evaluating a few force generation models, including a 56-month model.
The Navy and Marine Corps’ leaders’ comments come as the services launched the Amphibious Force Readiness Board (AFRB) in March in an attempt to solve amphibious readiness issues and determine how many ships are needed.
Amphibious ships deploy and create an Amphibious Ready Group (ARG) formation, which typically includes an assault ship, a transport dock, and a support vessel that together carry an embarked Marine Expeditionary Unit (MEU) of at least 2,200 Marines. Altogether, these assets create what the services call an “ARG-MEU,” and the Corps aims to maintain a 3.0 ARG-MEU presence globally.
While three ARG-MEUs are currently deployed, Commandant of the Marine Corps Gen. Eric Smith said that combatant commanders are calling for far more than that right now, but the force can’t meet their demands.
“Every combatant commander is calling for an ARG-MEU. Every one of them — SOUTHCOM to EUCOM, to CENTCOM, AFRICOM — they’re all calling for an ARG-MEU because it is the most flexible tool in the DoD inventory,” Smith said today at Modern Day Marine. “It takes you from humanitarian assistance crisis response to non-combatant evacuation operations, to key strike capabilities and lethality.”
As a result, Smith said that he wished he had more ARG-MEUs to offer combatant commanders, and said that the formation is becoming even more relevant “as the world becomes less and less predictable.” 
Smith said that the services are pursuing three avenues to increase the size and availability of the amphibious force, including: optimizing maintenance schedules and force generation models, procuring new ships, and extending the service lives of existing ships. 
Underscoring this approach, Expeditionary Warfare Director Brig. Gen. Lee Meyer revealed at Modern Day Marine on Tuesday that the amphibious assault ship USS Wasp’s service life had been extended five years until 2034, and indicated that other amphibious vessels could also see service life extensions as studies are ongoing to provide recommendations.
“I want to look at every class of amphibious ship in a deliberate way, find out ways that I can invest in that, with modernization, with maintenance, in order to extend the life of those ships,” Meyer said. 

General Dynamics shows ARV-30 at Modern Day Marine
Colton Jones
Defence Blog

Key Points
* General Dynamics displayed the ARV-30 8×8 reconnaissance vehicle, RAMPART CMOSS chassis, PhantomLink laser comms, and three bridging systems at Modern Day Marine April 28-30.
* The COBRA assault bridge integrated on a KOMODO UGV from Dok-Ing is scheduled to begin testing in July 2026.
General Dynamics showed up to Modern Day Marine 2026 with three business units, two booth numbers, and enough hardware to stock a small army — from a next-generation 8×8 reconnaissance vehicle with a 30mm cannon to an assault bridge mounted on an unmanned ground vehicle scheduled to begin testing in July.
The company’s presence at the April 28-30 exposition at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington, D.C., spans land systems, mission systems, and European land systems — a cross-section of General Dynamics’ defense portfolio that reflects how comprehensively the corporation has positioned itself around the Marine Corps’ modernization priorities under Force Design 2030.
The headline platform at General Dynamics Land Systems’ Booth 2206 is the Advanced Reconnaissance Vehicle ARV-30, an 8×8 wheeled platform mounting a 30mm cannon and designed to deliver lethality while expanding the reconnaissance network across the modern battlefield. The ARV-30 is built to complement the ARV-C4UAS variant — the counter-drone configuration of the same platform family — and integrates multidomain sensor nodes with a remote turret that combines firepower, situational awareness, and connectivity in a single vehicle. Open architecture, automated data fusion, and cybersecurity measures built into the design allow Marine Corps units to coordinate across manned and unmanned assets simultaneously, extending command and control reach into complex environments where the Corps increasingly expects to fight. The ARV-30 is not a future concept — it is a platform on the show floor, in front of the acquisition officials and operators who will decide what the Corps buys next.
Sharing the Land Systems booth is the Digital Twin Sustainment Suite, a software system that takes a different but equally important angle on Marine Corps readiness. DTSS comprises three modules — self-guided e-learning, instructor-led training, and advanced maintenance — and is designed to improve how ground combat vehicle units train and maintain their equipment. The digital environment DTSS creates improves learning retention, training throughput, and maintenance efficiency for instructors, students, and maintainers alike. As part of the Integrated Logistics Support plan for ground vehicles, it addresses the sustainment side of the readiness equation that often gets less attention than the platforms themselves but determines whether those platforms are actually available when needed.
General Dynamics Mission Systems occupies Booth 2113 with a portfolio that runs from encryption to laser communications to assured positioning — the electronic and cyber backbone that modern military operations depend on but rarely see discussed alongside the vehicles and weapons that dominate defense coverage.
The RAMPART CMOSS Chassis is among the more technically ambitious items on display. Designed to enable a standards-based C5ISR ecosystem for the joint force, the chassis collapses multiple capabilities — assured positioning, navigation and timing, radio, and electronic warfare — into a single system built around 3U OpenVPX processor cards that can be inserted and upgraded rapidly. It fits within the SINCGARS radio space in any vehicle or platform, meaning it can go wherever a radio goes without requiring vehicle modification. The system runs at 100 gigabit interconnect speed, providing the data throughput that current and future sensor and communications loads will demand.
PhantomLink addresses a different communications challenge. The Free Space Optics system uses laser communications to provide high-bandwidth transport for mobile command posts, combining an optical terminal with a waveform-adaptable optical modem. The system operates outside regulated spectrum — meaning no frequency coordination, no spectrum deconfliction, and rapid deployment wherever military operations require it. Advanced error correction and pointing, acquisition, and tracking algorithms give it high link availability even in challenging atmospheric conditions, while its laser-based nature makes it inherently difficult to intercept. For a command post that needs bandwidth and doesn’t want its communications traffic exploited, PhantomLink offers a capability that radio frequency systems cannot replicate.
GPS Source’s Assured Positioning, Navigation and Timing solutions — Fight Tonight and the Modified Reception Pattern Antenna — address the GPS-challenged environments that have become a standard feature of contested operating areas. The core of the system, the ED3M PNT Hub, has over 1,000 actively fielded units deployed across Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps platforms worldwide. The encryption portfolio rounding out the Mission Systems display — TACLANE high assurance encryptors, the Sectéra vIPer Universal Secure Phone, the ProtecD@R Multi-Platform Encryptor, and the GEM One Encryptor Manager — represents the classified communications and data protection layer that every other system in the booth depends on to operate securely.
General Dynamics European Land Systems, also at Booth 2206, brings three bridging systems that address the gap-crossing requirement that ground forces have needed solutions for since armies first encountered rivers and obstacles. The COBRA Armored Assault Bridge, displayed integrated onto a KOMODO unmanned ground vehicle from Dok-Ing, is the most forward-leaning of the three — a bridge layer that can be attached to the UGV while retaining all of the carrier vehicle’s original functions, capable of supporting loads up to MLC 120. Testing on the KOMODO is scheduled to begin in July, making this a system with a near-term milestone attached to its show floor appearance. The HYDRA Multifunctional Floating Platform, a modular pontoon system capable of functioning as ferry, floating bridge, transport boat, or working platform up to MLC 50, and the VIPER Modular Trackway Bridge integrated onto a Joint Light Tactical Vehicle — configurable in 5, 7, or 9-meter spans up to MLC 50 — complete a bridging portfolio that gives tactical units gap-crossing options from light to heavy without depending on dedicated combat engineer assets.

Marines to start development on Advanced Reconnaissance Vehicle Increment 2 in 2029
Carley Welch
Breaking Defense

The Increment 2 iteration will consist of a counter unmanned aerial system variant, a recovery variant and one for precision fires.
WASHINGTON — The Marines Corps will start development for the second increment of its  Advanced Reconnaissance Vehicle (ARV) program at the end of this decade, one senior official said today, while revealing new details on what Increment 2 will entail. 
“We’re always working our requirements because it’s a fast-moving conversation, but we don’t plan to really start Increment 2 development until [20]29, and so that will run in parallel as we make the production down-select and work on our initial fieldings for Increment 1,” Col. Christopher Stephenson, the Marine Corps’ program manager of Vehicle Systems, said today at the annual Modern Day Marine exposition. 
Increment 1 of the ARV program is currently in the pre-production development stage, with General Dynamics Land Systems (GDLS) and Textron on contract to deliver 16 vehicles each to the Marines by 2028. A down-select decision for the first increment is scheduled for 2029, and a production award will be made in late 2030, Stephenson said.
The two companies are responsible for producing three vehicle variants for the first increment: a command, control, communications and computers-unmanned aerial system (C4/UAS) model, a logistics model and a model with a 30-mm autocannon. 
Stephenson revealed today that Increment 2 will consist of a counter unmanned aerial system (c-UAS) variant, a recovery variant and one for precision fires. According to a slide deck shared with the audience, the Marines hope to find a c-UAS model that provides kinetic and non-kinetic capabilities. Further it should be “optimized” for a 24-hour c-UAS threat while also able to “detect and engage ground threats as well.”
Not many details for the recovery variant were revealed, but the slides noted that the “design driver for this variant is the crane and winch,” adding that the capability should have a fuel foraging system and a metal wielding and cutting capability. The slides further indicated that the precision fires model should provide beyond-line-of-sight fire support to formations out to 40 kilometers and be equipped with reconnaissance, electronic attack and surface attack capabilities.
Stephenson disclosed today that the Marines plan on acquiring a total of 654 ARVs — 426 for Increment 1 and 228 for Increment 2 — though these numbers may change as the service is constantly adjusting its priorities to fall in line with the current threat environment.  Stephenson said it is not yet known when any awards for Increment 2 will be decided. 
“If you actually lay out Increment 1 and Increment 2 production, we will be building these vehicles for 10 years. So there’s plenty of opportunity for adjustments and requirement changes, again, to keep pace with the threat, but also just the reality of whatever may change. The experimentation that’s inherently part of force design, as I always say, is a journey. Things are going to change,” Stephenson said. 

Oshkosh Defense exhibits at Modern Day Marine 2026
KHL Staff
Power Progress

Oshkosh Defense LLC, an Oshkosh Corporation, is exhibiting at Modern Day Marine, April 28–30, 2026, showcasing advanced mobility and sustainment solutions built to support Marines operating across distributed maritime environments.
The display includes the Remotely Operated Ground Unit for Expeditionary Fires (ROGUE-Fires). Equipped with the Navy/Marine Expeditionary Ship Interdiction System (NMESIS), the unit delivers an expeditionary, land-based fires capability that enables sea denial and supports naval campaigns. It pairs advanced payloads and autonomy with the Oshkosh JLTV platform to perform in austere environments.
The ROGUE-Fires is designed to enable Marines to disperse, maneuver and remain survivable while operating forward in contested maritime environments.
Also on display is the Medium Tactical Vehicle Replacement (MTVR) 4×4 equipped with exportable power and enhanced lighting, which the company said strengthen the MTVR’s core mission capabilities of logistical support, operational mobility and transportability, while improving performance across current missions and expanding flexibility in distributed environments. The platform builds on proven mobility, said the company, with targeted upgrades that extend service life and increase mission execution.
“We develop robust, versatile platforms and provide the lifecycle support needed to keep them ready, relevant and effective in contested environments,” said Pat Williams, chief program officer at Oshkosh Defense. “From autonomous fires to modernized mobility and integrated sustainment, our approach connects capability with long-term performance in the field.”

Marine Corps Turns to AI to Help ID Pay Delays, Boost Retention
Ross Gianfortune
Gov CIO

The AI-powered PULSE Check delivers real-time feedback on issues like pay delays and training gaps to help leaders improve retention.
The Marine Corps is using artificial intelligence to identify and help address unresolved issues like pay delays and training gaps that can drive Marines out of service, officials from the 4th Marine Logistics Group (MLG) said this week.
The group’s AI-enabled prototype, PULSE Check, addresses shortcomings in traditional military feedback, including low engagement and data lag that can render annual audits outdated upon release.
“[Reviews like the Defense Organizational Climate Survey (DEOCS)] are our annual physical, a comprehensive and irreplaceable assessment of your physical and even mental health slide, but PULSE Check is a Fitbit,” Col. Prescott Wilson, chief of staff for the 4th MLG said during Modern Day Marine Tuesday in Washington, D.C. “You have it on. You’re getting day-to-day, continuous feedback and it adds to the overall annual health assessment.”
Wilson said the tool addresses a key challenge in the reserves, where commanders often lack real-time visibility into the stressors affecting personnel. Traditional surveys can take weeks to plan, execute and analyze, often producing lengthy reports after a Marine has already decided to leave the service.
“By the time we’re talking to these Marines, they’ve already made a decision. They’re effectively leaving our ranks, and that comes at a cost to manpower. That’s talent we can’t get back,” Wilson told GovCIO Media & Research in an interview.
PULSE Check uses a four-minute, mobile-friendly interface to generate statistically reliable data in near real time. Col. Samuel Sung, a Logistics Innovation Unit officer and Marine reservist, said that speed enables a more responsive leadership approach.
“If it’s no longer this painful several?hour process. It’s only minutes, then they’re more likely to say, ‘Hey, can we run another one?” Sung told GovCIO Media & Research.
Non-Traditional Engineering
Sung built the prototype using the same type of AI capabilities it deploys. Rather than relying on traditional software development, he used conversational prompting with AI agents to design and stand up the system.
“I don’t know how to code, but I know how to talk. I know how to talk to an AI agent, just like everybody can click ChatGPT or Gemini or whatnot,” Sung noted. ” I started talking to it, ‘Hey, I don’t know how to do this. Can you walk me through this?’ And it started walking me step by step. About three hours later, I tapped my fellow innovation officer and said, ‘I think this works.’”
PULSE Check uses a large language model to analyze free-form text responses — the qualitative input where Marines are most likely to surface candid concerns. The system allows command teams to interact with their unit’s data as if they were speaking to a dedicated staff officer, Sung said.
“What if every unit had a data analyst and that person was insanely smart and they remembered all the data? That’s what we did with PULSE Check,” Sung said.
Keeping a Human in the Loop
Sung and Wilson emphasized that the AI is designed to sharpen military judgment, not replace it. All AI systems need to have a human in the loop for better commander decision-making, Wilson said.
“If the idea ever became that AI is telling the commander the decision to make, then they’re no longer a commander,” Wilson said.
Sung added that the system is intended to surface insights and provide a “red team” perspective, not definitive answers.
“If we outsource our thinking to AI, that’s a very dangerous place to be,” he said. “The philosophy that was built into this is that this AI tool is not going to give you the answer. There is no answer. It gives you feedback.”
Better Feedback, Stronger Units
Rapid iteration also strengthens trust, Sung and Wilson told GovCIO Media & Research. When Marines see their suggestions and complaints acted upon quickly via the PULSE Check system, Sung said, it creates a better feedback cycle.
“[Commanders can say], ‘Hey, we got your feedback. We’d like to do something about it,’” Sung said. “It’s a faster iteration loop. It doesn’t take a year to get feedback.”
Wilson said that a cultural shift may be the PULSE Check’s best possible outcome.
“If the Marines and sailors in the ranks feel and they can see that their feedback matters … there is a lot of intangible readiness gains that come from that kind of climate,” Wilson said. “There’s a closed loop where the Marines have a little bit more voice and can be very helpful in making a stronger unit.”

CH-53K gears up for first deployment with 26th Marine Expeditionary Unit
Diana Stancy
Breaking Defense

“The Marine Corps has a very deliberate plan for not only training, but also personnel and additional preparation for that deployment,” Col. Kate Fleeger, the helicopter’s program manager, said. “So we are deliberately moving through those individual checklist items to get ready and are continuing to progress towards that 26th MEU deployment.”
WASHINGTON — The Marine Corps’ new heavy-lift helicopter is slated to kick off its first operational deployment with the 26th Marine Expeditionary Unit (MEU) in fiscal 2027 after several delays, the program’s manager said. 
The CH-53K King Stallion just reached 10,000 fleet flight hours while conducting shipboard evolutions as it gears up for the upcoming deployment, Col. Kate Fleeger said.
“The Marine Corps has a very deliberate plan for not only training, but also personnel and additional preparation for that deployment,” Fleeger said at the Modern Day Marine exposition. “So we are deliberately moving through those individual checklist items to get ready and are continuing to progress towards that 26th MEU deployment.”
Although the Marine Corps previously said in 2022 that the helicopter would conduct its first operational deployment in FY24, that date has been pushed back several times to accommodate the “production of additional aircraft and spare parts, and for the maturation of the broader supply network,” according to Marine Corps spokesperson Capt. Jacob Sugg. As a result, Sugg said the deployment was postponed “to mitigate operational risks and ensure the smoothest possible transition of this capability to the warfighter.”
“This proactive approach was designed to ensure the success of the first and all follow-on deployments while simultaneously supporting stateside units and the production line,” Sugg said in a statement to Breaking Defense.
The service said in its 2026 aviation plan released in February that the aircraft would deploy in FY27, but did not disclose details regarding the unit the helicopter would deploy with. The 26th MEU is based out of Camp Lejeune in North Carolina.
The King Stallion has the capacity to lift three times the load of the CH-53E Super Stallion that it’s replacing, according to Lockheed Martin. The helicopter, with the increased payload capacity, is designed to carry cargo like armored vehicles and troops, and has successfully completed an air-to-air refueling test, according to the company. 
Sikorsky, a Lockheed Martin subsidiary, manufactures the aircraft, and said in September that it had delivered 20 aircraft to the service. As of Wednesday, Fleeger said that the Marine Corps now has 25 King Stallion aircraft in its fleet. Altogether, the Marine Corps is seeking to acquire 200 aircraft for the program.
The Marine Corps has touted that the helicopter and its capabilities are a gamechanger as it seeks to implement its distributed aviation operations strategy, which requires dispersing aviation assets in an attempt to bolster survivability and complicate adversary targeting, according to the Marine Corps’ 2026 aviation plan.
“Now, given the payload amplification of the ’53K, plus its range without having to tank off of a high value asset, like a C-130 or other aerial refueling assets within the department, it gives it its ability to do these missions very independently and provide a lot of sustainment capability to the forces without having to rely so much on a fuel source,” Lt. Col. Marianne Carlson, aviation vision and strategy planner at Marine Corps Aviation Headquarters, told Breaking Defense in March. 

Marines to field light loitering munition to operational units in ‘June timeframe’: Official
Carley Welch
Breaking Defense

Currently OFP-L systems from three manufacturers are being tested by units at Dugway Proving Grounds outside of Salt Lake City.
WASHINGTON — The Marines plan to officially start fielding their new launched effects capabilities, dubbed Organic Precision Fires- Light (OPF-L), to operational units in the “June timeframe,” one senior official said today. 
Currently, systems from three manufacturers are being tested by units at Dugway Proving Grounds outside of Salt Lake City. But beginning in June, operational units will begin to receive them, Col. Bradley Sams, program manager of Ground Weapons Systems for the Marine Corps said today.
“The ones that we have given to those units have been inerts [referring to systems without live warheads] to get after training and TTPs [tactics, techniques and procedures] so they can figure out how they again, how we incorporate into the scheme, their schemes,” Sams said. “The fielding decision is planned for the June timeframe, and that will be the first time we’ll get actual inerts and live warheads to the units that are on the fielding plan.”
Sams declined to divulge what units would be receiving the systems. 
In 2024, the Marines awarded Anduril, Aerovironment (since rebranded as AV) and Teledyne contracts to deliver the light launched effects, which are designed to equip dismounted Marine infantry squads with easily portable precision strike capabilities that can engage with the enemy beyond their line of sight. Anduril is providing its Bolt-M systems, AV is providing its Switchblade 300 Block 20 product and Teledyne is providing its Rogue 1 systems. 
Both Anduril and Teledyne have received follow on contracts for over 600 systems each since their initial award in spring of 2024. AV declined to comment when asked if they had received a follow on contract, and nothing has been posted related to the award on the company’s website since the initial 2024 contract.
Though he didn’t provide details, Sams added that the Marines have been applying lessons learned from the Army’s Low Altitude Stalking and Strike Ordnance (LASSO) launched effects program — aimed at delivering portable, lightweight anti-armor systems to Brigade Combat Teams —  to help inform the Corps on what its OPF-L program should look like in the end.
“We are working with our Army brethren to find out what they’re doing in the LASSO program, and we’ve worked with them for the two years, ever since we started OPF-L. So we are taking all the lessons learned from them and garnering as much as we can as we make decisions for the Marine Corps,” Sams said. 
Sams’ comments today come after the Marines posted a request for white papers for a medium variant, or OPF-M, last week, which said the service is hoping to award production contracts by fiscal 2028. Further, today Sams said just like with the OPF-L variant, the service is keeping its options open.
“So we are open to anything right now, whether it is a fixed wing, a VTOL [vertical take off and launching], launched or man-packable,” Sams said. “Whatever it is that is available to us. We’re open to hear what is out in the industry right now as you try and get something out very quickly to meet the threat.” 

Marine requirement for lightweight counter-drone tech to be released in coming months
Carley Welch
Breaking Defense

Though there is not a current requirement or program of record for such systems, they have been fielded to Marines due to an "urgent field need.”
WASHINGTON — A new requirement for handheld counter-drone capabilities aimed at taking down small unmanned aerial systems is coming soon, a Marine official told Breaking Defense today. 
Such counter-unmanned aerial systems are lightweight tools that can be attached to a Marine’s person, Lt. Col R.M. Barclay, Marine Air Command and Control System branch head, said during a panel at the annual Modern Day Marine expo. He told an audience that these systems are currently being fielded to Marines due to an “urgent field need,” though there is not a current requirement or program of record for such systems.
However, a requirement will be coming within the “next couple of months,” he told Breaking Defense on the sidelines of the event. Currently, “the document is at the O6/O7 level,” meaning it’s being reviewed by a colonel or one-star general. (Typically such requirements have to be approved by generals with at least three stars before they’re official.)
The “wearable” cUAS tech deployed now is primarily being operated in non-kinetic ways via handheld passive sensors or jamming, Barclay said. The problem, he added, is that the systems being deployed now aren’t linked to one another, so the hope is the new requirement will mandate that such systems are all connected. 
“These are disparate systems that are not integrated into each other. I think the end goal is to have all that integrated again. That connective tissue to IMD [integrated missile defense] really, really matters in the future. Our current systems that we’re buying don’t do that because we had an urgent need being filled immediately,” Barclay said.
Barclay’s comments come after Maj. Gen. Jason Morris, director of operations within the Marine’s headquarter division, said the Marines are experiencing a “shortfall” in protecting their ground fleet from drone threats. He further noted that complex systems like Lower Tier Air Missile Defense Sensors (LTAMDS) are not cutting it when protecting against small drone threats as they work best when used to shoot down larger drones like those in Groups 3-5.
“While the Force Design did field a number of systems, think [LTAMDS] into the formations, there is still a shortfall in maneuver coverage at the GCE [ground combat element] and the LCE [logistics combat element] level,” the two-star general said this morning. 
He added that the service is “taking action” to field cUAS kits to the lower level formations to make sure they “tackle” the Group 1 and Group 2 threats. 
“That is something that we are really doing in real time to the best of our ability,” Morris said. “We’re building the plane as we’re flying it, but we can’t wait on the standard acquisitions program timeline for things to be fielded in five to seven years, because things are changing on the battlefield so much and so quickly that we’ve got to be able to adapt, to adapt faster than that — in the weeks and months timeframe.” 

USS Wasp sees five-year service life extension
Diana Stancy
Breaking Defense

“The other LHDs — we've got to study to see if we can extend them, and the plan is going to be to do that,” a top Marine said.
WASHINGTON — The amphibious assault ship USS Wasp’s service life has been extended five years, and the Navy and Marine Corps are evaluating additional extensions for other amphibious vessels. 
“This fall, the CNO approved the service life extension of the USS Wasp, that’s the LHD one, the first of her class, a steam ship, and he extended it by five years until 2034,” Expeditionary Warfare Director Brig. Gen. Lee Meyer said at the Modern Day Marine exposition Tuesday. “The other LHDs — we’ve got to study to see if we can extend them, and the plan is going to be to do that.”
According to Meyer, extending the service life of the Wasp is “an example of what we would like to do with other ships.”
“But we’ve yet to analyze exactly what that would look like, and to be clear, it’s not a one size fits all,” Meyer said. 
Likewise, Meyer said that another study is underway evaluating the status of the dock landing ship (LSD) that is expected to wrap up “very soon” and provide recommendations for service life extensions for that class of ship. Once that study is received, Meyer said the services must figure out how they want to employ, resource, and sustain the fleet.  
“I want to look at every class of amphibious ship in a deliberate way, find out ways that I can invest in that, with modernization, with maintenance, in order to extend the life of those ships,” Meyer said.
The Navy and Marine Corps recently stood up the Amphibious Force Readiness Board (AFRB) in March, which is seeking to address amphibious readiness issues and is evaluating how many amphibious ships are needed. 
“Those service life extensions are key factors in our readiness as we look to generate the number of amphibs that we need based on what the commandant and the CNO are guiding us to,” Meyer said. 
Current law requires the Department of the Navy to maintain a fleet of at least 31 amphibious ships, but Meyer noted that both Vice Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Jim Kilby and Gen. Bradford Gering, the assistant commandant of the Marine Corps, have testified that more are needed. For example, Gering told lawmakers on the Senate Armed Services Committee that the right number is “probably somewhere near 40.” 
These ships work together to form an Amphibious Ready Group (ARG) formation, which typically includes an assault ship, a transport dock, and a support vessel that carry an embarked Marine Expeditionary Unit (MEU) of at least 2,200 Marines. Together, this forms what the Marine Corps refers to as an “ARG-MEU,” and the Corps aims to maintain a 3.0 ARG-MEU presence globally. 
Commandant of the Marine Corps Gen. Eric Smith said at the Sea Air Space exposition this month that while three ARG-MEUs are currently deployed, combatant commanders are requesting a 5.5 ARG-MEU presence and the force can’t meet that demand. 
As a result, Smith said that the Navy and the Marine Corps are looking at several ways to improve the availability of its amphibious fleet, including extending the service lives of some ships.

Cao says industry needs to ‘move forward’ in first DC speech as acting SecNav
Diana Stancy
Breaking Defense

Acting Secretary of the Navy Hung Cao delivered his first public remarks since stepping into the role.
WASHINGTON — In his first public remarks in Washington since taking over as Acting Secretary of the Navy, Hung Cao told an industry audience that the service is open to business with new and alternative entrants, as long as they can supply what the service needs.
“I’m asking you, our partners in industry, to help us develop the best things out there, because lives that you saved are going to be our sons and daughters,” Cao said at the Modern Day Marine exposition today. “And that’s why I’m here today, to tell industry we need to move forward. The time is now. This is, this is a time for us to do generational changes for our military.”
Cao emphasized that “We’re going to look for different entrants to go in there and give us new equipment or better products.” But his comments had a different tone than those of OMB director Russel Vought at last week’s Sea Air Space conference, where he launched a broadside at traditional naval contractors.
“New entrants into this arena is the most important thing,” Cao said. “I’m not trying to bash the old, the big 8 companies. But sometimes they get, they kind of rest on the laurels, and I need the new entrants to give them some, you know, a little love.”
As an example of his thinking, Cao homed in on the question of how the Navy can get after its munitions shortfall.
“Why can’t I not buy my munitions from multiple sources? As long as it fits in that tube, as long as it fits on the aircraft, that’s all that matters,” Cao said. “Let’s just say I need 1,000 of these missiles. If this guy can give me 100, this other guy can give me 50, and this other guy can give me 200, eventually we’ll get to that 1,000, and not have to go through one single vendor.”
Cao’s comments come as the Pentagon is seeking a steep increase in munitions, amid ongoing operations in the Middle East that have burned through thousands of weapons from the US stockpile. The Pentagon’s budget request increases funding to $70.5 billion on missiles and other related line items for fiscal 2027 — up from roughly $24.4 billion in FY26. That translates to a 188 percent increase over what was approved in FY26, Breaking Defense previously reported. 
The Navy is also seeking a massive increase in funding for shipbuilding. The service is requesting $65.8 billion for shipbuilding alone for FY27, a hike from the $27.2 billion allocated to shipbuilding in the FY26 enacted budget.
Cao emphasized that the Trump administration’s Golden Fleet initiative, which seeks to drive US maritime superiority, also encompasses revamping how the Navy acquires ships as the service moves toward implementing “tailored forces” to respond to a variety of threats, capitalizing on unmanned systems to augment legacy vessels.
“The Golden Fleet is not just about ships,” Cao said. “It’s the whole concept of reforming acquisitions and getting ships out there from high, low, right? You can’t use a destroyer for everything. It’s like, you don’t want to use a brain surgeon just to suture up some stitches. I mean, you can use a corpsman for that, right?”
Cao, who previously served as Under Secretary of the Navy, was tapped just last week to serve in his current post, following the departure of Secretary of the Navy John Phelan.
Cao originally joined the Navy as a seaman recruit in 1989, and eventually graduated from the US Naval Academy in 1996. He spent more than 20 years as a naval officer and completed deployments to Iraq, Afghanistan, and Somalia, and retired from the service as a captain. 
Following his military service, he became a vice president and client executive at CACI International. The Senate confirmed him to his post as Under Secretary of the Navy in October 2025.
Ashley Roque and Valerie Insinna contributed to this report.
CORRECTION 4/29/26 at 10:23 AM: The story originally claimed this was Cao’s first speech as Acting Navy Secretary. His first speech was on 4/25, at the commissioning of the USS Idaho. This story has been updated.

Mobilicom to Exhibit at Modern Day Marine 2026, Showcasing its Cybersecure Solutions Portfolio Amid Growing U.S. Department of War Platform Deployments
Mobilicom Limited
Yahoo Finance

Mobilicom to hold strategic meetings with U.S. Department of War and Marine Corps representatives, as well as existing customers and new customers under integration, at the premier Marine Corps technology exposition
Palo Alto, California, April 23, 2026 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Mobilicom Limited (Nasdaq: MOB, MOBBW) (“Mobilicom” or the “Company”), a provider of cybersecurity and robust solutions for drones and robotics, today announced it will exhibit at Modern Day Marine 2026, taking place April 28–30, 2026 in Washington, D.C. The Company will exhibit under the booth of its strategic U.S. partner, Noble, a leading provider of procurement and logistics for the defense industry, at Booth #618.
“Modern Day Marine is where we get to demonstrate real results — not just products,” said Oren Elkayam, Founder and CEO of Mobilicom. “Our solutions are already deployed in drone platforms actively serving the Marine Corps, and a Tier-1 customer’s recent Program of Record win with the U.S. Department of War supports the potential for high-volume production and multi-year continuity. We expect to meet with representatives of the U.S. DoW and the Marine Corps, catch up with existing customers, and connect with new customers currently integrating our technology. This is exactly the kind of show where all of that comes together.”
Mobilicom will showcase its full product line at the show, with SkyHopper MultiBand taking center stage. The latest addition to the Company’s SDR data link line, SkyHopper MultiBand, delivers wideband coverage across multiple frequency bands, extended range, and is designed to provide strong resistance to electronic warfare and jamming — purpose-built for complex, contested environments. Alongside it, Mobilicom will present its comprehensive end-to-end portfolio, including ICE Cybersecurity Software, OS3 Platform Software, airborne and ground data links, MCU Mesh Networking and Mobile Ground Control Stations— all field-proven and already embedded in platforms serving the U.S. Department of War.
Mobilicom comes to Modern Day Marine with real momentum: a Tier-1 customer's recent U.S. Department of War Program of Record win unlocks the potential for high-volume production with multi-year delivery continuity for Mobilicom-powered drone platforms.
Modern Day Marine is the U.S. Marine Corps’ premier venue for product developers to demonstrate their capabilities directly to service members, acquisition specialists, and service leaders. Hosted in Washington, D.C. and drawing hundreds of exhibitors across more than 84,000 square feet of interactive displays, the exposition serves as the central meeting point for the Marine Corps warfighting community and the defense industry.
Visitors can find Mobilicom at Noble Booth #618. To schedule a meeting in advance, contact david.fagelston@mobilicom.com.
About Mobilicom
Mobilicom is a leading provider of cybersecure robust solutions for the rapidly growing defense and commercial drones and robotics market. Mobilicom’s large portfolio of field-proven technologies includes cybersecurity, software, hardware, and professional services that power, connect, guide, and secure drones and robotics. Through deployments across the globe with over 50 customers, including the world’s largest drone manufacturers, Mobilicom’s end-to-end solutions are used in mission-critical functions.

Lite Coms USG Sales Director George Cerasani Talks Network Resiliency at Modern Day Marine
Lite Coms
Via Satellite 40 

In this conversation at Modern Day Marine, Lite Coms U.S. Government Sales Director George Cerasani discusses how Lite Coms designs its products to provide tactical, multi-orbit connectivity in order to give U.S. government customers like the Marines the ability to operate across multiple satcom networks. 
Via Satellite Executive Editor Jeffrey Hill interviews Cerasani about some of the company’s products, including its CART terminal architecture. 
“You need to have resiliency in your network,” Cerasani says. “We need some LEO, some GEO, some LTE. We need a little bit of everything in case you’re going against a near-peer threat and things happen on certain networks and you have to switch over.” 
This conversation was sponsored by Lite Coms 
Interview transcript 
Hill: Hello everybody. This is Jeffrey Hill from Via Satellite Magazine and I’m here at Modern Day Marine in Lite Com’s booth with George Cerasani from Lite Coms. George, good to see you.
Cerasani: Good to see you.
Hill: Welcome. How’s the show been going for you so far?
Cerasani: It’s been great this year. It’s been very busy. A lot of foot traffic, a lot of people stopping by asking about our equipment.
Hill: Yeah. Lots of excitement here. I can already tell. I can see even on the last day there’s a lot of people taking a look at all the products here.
But we are here in front of your multi-orbit 1.3A terminal. And we also have some of your CART minis, your infrastructure – we’re going to talk about in a bit.
I wanted to ask you uh with Lite Com’s 1.3 terminal, what kind of operational advantages do you—does the terminal provide? This is a multi-orbit terminal, so what advantages would that provide to war fighter in operations?
Cerasani: Yeah, so the Lite Sat 1.3 is is very unique. It’s multi-orbit. It does MEO, GEO and HEO, so the highly elliptical orbit. It’s certified on multiple different constellations, and the pack out is extremely small. Three cases, it can be airline checkable, which makes it awesome for a logistic standpoint. So that’s our huge advantage of it right now.
Hill: Yeah. I heard people earlier talking to you, asking if it was compatible with different constellations, and you said like it was it was compatible with a lot of different.
Cerasani: Yep.
Hill: Yeah. Yeah. There’s been a lot of talk here about the sort of, you know, Marines on the move on, comm’s on the move, which is no surprise for a military show. But can you tell us from your perspective how you expect those requirements for true comms on the move for the Marines to evolve over the next few years?
Cerasani: Yeah, so from my perspective, you know, the NATAM program specifically, the network on the move, has had a small parabolic antenna inside their vehicle. And I think a lot of things are switching to a flat panel system. So electronically steer to raid, and they’re looking for multi-orbit and then frequency, you know, the spectrum. They want to operate on different bands, and that’s really what we offer. We have a KU and a KA terminal that are certified on different networks. Multiple LEO platforms, which is awesome, because no one else really does that. And I think that’s where it’s all going to, right? Because we need to stay connected, you know, as you maneuver the battle space.
Hill: And do you still have people— I’m just curious if you still have people asking like why multi-orbit or why single orbit? Like, do you still have people and how do you answer that question?
Cerasani: You know, I think it used to be a common question, but now it’s just kind of a standard practice, right? That’s great to hear.
Hill: That’s great to hear.
Cerasani: Yeah, Like you need to have resiliency in your network, right? So, we need some LEO, some GEO, some LTE. We need a little bit of everything just in case you’re going against a near-peer threat, and you know things happen on certain networks, and you have to switch over. And that’s what kind of makes us unique, right? Like you can generate a pace plan inside of our terminal, so your primary alternate, you know, networks and it’ll switch between them as you know something becomes compromised or it’s no longer connected, and it’ll just switch automatically. Awesome for the war fighter.
Hill: That’s great to hear. You’ve got this really cool Polaris vehicle on display, and on top of that, we have a CART mini. Can you talk about your new CART infrastructure and how that works with your network?
Cerasani: Yeah. So the CART mini KU we’re, you know, we can do multiple LEO networks, right? So, we can do one web or SpaceX network. Then GEO, it’ll do GEO and LTE, and it has an option for a modem hookup on the back, right? So, you can hook up an external third modem, which is awesome. Then we have our KA cart, which is our newest product. So that’ll be GEO and LEO and MEO as well for the Empower network, which makes it awesome. An automatic filler between the three. So, makes it really unique.
Hill: Yeah, that’s great. That’s great. And you know what are some of the next big steps here for Lite Coms in the next year? Are you just —what do your customers have to look forward to?
Cerasani: Yeah, so they’re looking forward to our CART combined or KUK cart combined, and really that’s what we’re focused on, right? So, give them the advantage of KUKA in one single platform is our next step.
Hill: That’s awesome. Well, George, thank you so much for explaining all this to me. It looks really cool. The booth looks great and we’re glad that you’re having a great show here.

Marines Realize They Can’t Depend On Army For Ballistic Missile Defense
Joseph Trevithick
The War Zone

The Marines currently rely on already strained Army units to provide defense against incoming ballistic missiles, which could be a big problem in the Pacific.
The U.S. Marine Corps is exploring the possibility of fielding a theater ballistic missile defense capability. A key driver in this discussion is the U.S. Army’s capacity to provide protection against ballistic threats in future conflicts, or lack thereof, something TWZ has highlighted repeatedly in the past. The latest conflict with Iran has underscored the serious threats that ballistic missiles pose even to high-end integrated air and missile defense networks, which would be magnified further in a fight against a near-peer adversary like China.
“We’re exploring theater ballistic missile defense. So we’re doing some studies, we’re running some simulations, to see if that’s a requirement for the service in the future,” Marine Lt. Col. Robert Barclay said during a panel discussion yesterday at the annual Modern Day Marine exposition, at which TWZ has been in attendance.
Barclay is currently the Marine Air Command and Control Systems (MACCS) Integration Branch Head within the Aviation Combat Element Division of the service’s Combat Development and Integration office. His portfolio includes service-wide air and missile defense requirements.
“We know our old sensor used to be able to do it, but it wasn’t really a requirement,” Barclay added. “What we need to determine is, is [defending against] a theater ballistic [missile] like an SRBM [short-range ballistic missile] or MRBM [medium-range ballistic missile], a requirement for the Marine Corps to do? I would argue that it probably is.”
“At the end of the day, I don’t think the Army’s going to have enough capacity with us where we’re operating to actually adjudicate on that threat,” he continued. “So, I think we need to take a hard look at that, and that’s what our intent [is] to do over the next year.”
To take a step back quickly, the Marine Corps’ main general-purpose ground-based anti-air weapon today is the Stinger short-range heat-seeking surface-to-air missile. The service currently fields Stinger in a man-portable air defense system (MANPADS) configuration using shoulder-fired launchers, as well as integrated on the Humvee-based Avenger air defense vehicles. Stinger offers a point defense capability against fixed-wing aircraft, helicopters, drones, and certain types of cruise missiles.
The Marines also hope to reach initial operational capability this year with a new Medium-Range Intercept Capability (MRIC), which is a service-specific variation of the Israeli Iron Dome system. MRIC uses a U.S.-made version of Iron Dome’s Tamir interceptor, called SkyHunter, and a trailer-based road-mobile launcher. Each launcher can accommodate up to 20 interceptors, which come preloaded in individual canisters, at a time. The system uses offboard sensors to spot and track targets and cue missiles to intercept them. The Corps’ existing AN/TPS-80 Ground/Air Task-Oriented Radars (G/ATOR) have been presented as the primary sensor for MRIC.
“The primary target set for MRIC is cruise missiles and your higher-end Group 5-type of [anti-]air application, as well as rotary wing, fixed-wing type of aspects,” Marine Col. Andrew Konicki, the service’s Program Manager for Ground Based Air Defense and another panelist at Modern Day Marine yesterday, explained. MRIC “can go after Group 3, because it’s probably a mismatch in terms of ammunition versus what it’s going after. So it’s primarily focused on that growing threat, or that higher-end threat, so to speak, as part of that integrated air missile defense application and layer defense piece.”
Groups 3 and 5 here refer to different categories of uncrewed aerial systems. The U.S. military defines Group 5 as consisting of drones with maximum weights greater than 1,320 pounds, and that can fly above 18,000 feet. The MQ-9 Reaper is a commonly used example of a Group 5 uncrewed aircraft. Drones that fall under Group 3 have maximum weights anywhere between 56 and 1,320 pounds, can operate at altitudes between 3,500 and 18,000 feet, and reach top speeds of up to 250 knots. Group 3 is very broad, but notably includes Iran’s now-infamous Shahed 136 long-range kamikaze drone, and the growing number of variants and derivatives thereof.
Lt. Col. Robert Barclay’s mention of an unspecified previous Marine ballistic missile defense capability seems most likely to be a reference to the HAWK medium-range surface-to-air missile system. The service retired HAWK in the 1990s, but versions of the system remain in use elsewhere worldwide, including in Ukraine. HAWK has used an evolving mixture of radars for target acquisition and engagement since the system was first introduced in the 1950s, as you can read more about here. Improved HAWK interceptors have also been developed, including variants explicitly intended to offer a rudimentary anti-ballistic missile capability.
The video below shows HAWK systems in service in Ukraine.
Barclay did not elaborate on what level of ballistic missile defense capability the Marine Corps might look to pursue in the future. In the past year or so, there have been reports of Israel using Iron Dome against incoming Iranian ballistic missiles in the terminal phase. However, the system’s effectiveness against ballistic missiles of any kind, which it was never designed to intercept, and whether the Marines might be able to employ MRIC in this role, is unclear.
Today, the main tool for providing ground-based theater ballistic missile defense across all of America’s armed forces is the Army’s Patriot surface-to-air missile systems. The Army also operates the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system, which offers a higher-end ballistic missile defense capability over Patriot. Both Patriot and THAAD are only capable of intercepting incoming ballistic threats during their final terminal phase.
At the same time, as TWZ has highlighted several times in recent years, the Army’s Patriot force is heavily strained due to constant demands that it is simply not adequately resourced to meet. The THAAD force is even smaller and is in equally heavy demand.
The latest conflict with Iran has reignited discussions about the Army’s worryingly limited capacity to meet operational needs for ballistic missile defense, as well as protection against other aerial threats. Between February and April, Iranian forces launched repeated missile and drone attacks on key bases across the Middle East. They were successful in many instances in targeting high-value military assets, including aircraft parked on the ground and air and missile defense radars.
The conflict with Iran also put a new spotlight on concerns about the depth of American stockpiles of air and missile defense interceptors, and the ability to replenish them quickly. Pressure on Patriot and THAAD units would be even more pronounced in a high-end fight, such as one across the broad expanses of the Pacific against China.
The Army has been trying to take steps to rectify these issues, including efforts underway now to expand the size and capabilities of the Patriot force. The U.S. military, overall, has been pushing industry to ramp up capacity to produce air and missile defense interceptors, as well as other critical munitions. At the same time, it will take years to fully achieve these aims.
Still, as Lt. Col. Barclay noted yesterday, questions about Army air and missile defense capacity remain, especially in the context of the Marine Corps’ broader vision for future operations. The service’s current core focus is on preparing for expeditionary and distributed operations involving the relatively rapid deployment and redeployment of forces between forward operating locations that could be well within reach of enemy standoff strikes. The Marines, like the other services, also have large established facilities that would need defending in any major conflict scenario.
The ballistic missile threat ecosystem is also not static. This is underscored by Iran’s recent use of ballistic missiles with cluster munition warheads, which are also designed to release their payloads at very high altitudes, as a way to consistently get around Israeli terminal defenses. TWZ previously explored the very serious broader implications of this in a feature you can find here.
China, in particular, continues to expand on its already diverse arsenal of ballistic missiles. Earlier this month, North Korea also notably tested a ballistic missile with a new cluster munition warhead. These developments are just some examples of a broader surge in ballistic missile developments globally in recent years. Those capabilities continue to proliferate to smaller nation-state militaries and even non-state actors.
Ballistic missiles would be only one part of the threat picture in any future high-end fight. The development of new hypersonic weapons, as well as advanced cruise missiles, continues worldwide. There has also been an explosion in the development and adoption of long-range one-way attack drones like the aforementioned Shahed 136, a trend that now also includes the United States.
“I would argue that the adversary is not just going to throw drones at you. We’re going to have other threats in the future,” Lt. Col. Barclay stressed during yesterday’s panel, which was focused primarily on ongoing efforts to counter uncrewed aerial threats. “You’re going to see probably TBM [theater ballistic missiles], ballistic missiles, coming at you as well in a variety of other types of threats.”
With all this in mind, a new, organic theater ballistic missile capability may now be on the horizon for the U.S. Marine Corps.

Empowering the Mission: Join Cisco at Modern Day Marine 2026
Scott Klear
Cisco Blogs

Ready to see how the latest innovations in secure networking and AI are shaping the future of the Marine Corps? Join Cisco Booth #1420 at Modern Day Marine, the premier exposition for military equipment, systems, and technology. 
Modern Day Marine will take place from April 28–30, 2026 at the Walter E. White Convention Center. As the largest event exclusively for the Marine Corps, this is your opportunity to explore the cutting-edge technology defining the modern battlefield. Cisco’s booth will be hosting a series of live demonstrations focused on solving the toughest challenges in contested environments. Don’t miss your chance to see these solutions in action: 
Experience Our Latest Innovations
Outpacing the Quantum Threat: Securing the Stand-In Force through Crypto-Agility and AI 
Join the discussion on defending against advancing quantum-era capabilities. This session explores Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQC), providing the Stand-In Force with a ‘Rosetta Stone’ for quantum-resistant and quantum-safe readiness to maintain secure, continuous communications against advanced threats in contested environments. 
Command and Control in the AI Era: Cisco’s Secure AI Factory and the Future of Secure IT Operations 
Learn how Cisco’s AI Strategy enables resilience, mission-readiness, and secure operations at the tactical edge. This session covers the Secure AI Factory, AI Security to protect your infrastructure and model integrity, and AIOps, ensuring self-healing networks that maintain mission-critical connectivity from the data center to the edge. 
End to End Network Visibility for Air Gapped Networks  
Learn how Cisco Provider Connectivity Assurance, deployed in a fully air-gapped configuration, can provide real-time, granular visibility into tactical network performance. 
The Bridge to Zero Trust 
Explore how Comply-to-Connect builds a Zero Trust foundation. This demo highlights automated device profiling and continuous posture assessment, ensuring only authorized, compliant assets gain network access. Strengthen your security perimeter by validating every device before it connects to the tactical edge. 
Full Spectrum Network Visibility: Defending the Mission at Every Layer 
Cisco Secure Network Analytics delivers real-time threat detection and behavioral analytics across your entire network — so warfighters and IT defenders can identify, investigate, and neutralize threats before they impact operations.  
Plan Your Visit Today 
We invite you to stop by Booth #1420 to check out our full demo schedule, which will be available onsite. Don’t miss the chance to experience hands-on demonstrations, engage directly with Cisco’s team of experts, and explore how we’re shaping the future of warfighting. 
Modern Day Marine will be held at the Walter E. White Convention Center from April 28-30.  For more details about Modern Day Marine, visit the official show site and start planning your visit today. We look forward to seeing you there! 

Textron debuts RIPSAW M1 combat robot at Marine Expo
Colton Jones
Defence Blog

Key Points
Textron Systems and Howe & Howe debuted the wheeled RIPSAW M1 UGV at Modern Day Marine on April 28, 2026, with 2,000 lb payload and 53 mph top speed.
The all-electric vehicle offers 30 miles of silent range, 48-inch fording depth, and is designed as a robotic force multiplier for Marine Corps ARV and ACV platforms.
Textron Systems and its subsidiary Howe & Howe pulled the wraps off a new unmanned ground vehicle at Modern Day Marine on April 28, 2026 — a wheeled robotic platform built specifically around the Marine Corps’ vision of how autonomous systems should fight alongside its existing armored fleet.
The vehicle is called the RIPSAW M1, and it is the first variant in a new line of vehicles, built on a Modular Open Systems Approach architecture that Textron Systems designed explicitly to scale — meaning the M1 is not a one-off concept but the opening entry in a family.
The specifications tell a story about a vehicle designed for speed, agility, and payload versatility rather than heavy protection. The M1 weighs 4,300 pounds at curb weight and carries a gross vehicle weight rating of 6,300 pounds — meaning it can accept up to 2,000 pounds of mission payload on its flat-deck surface. It measures 10.5 feet long, five feet wide, and four feet tall, a compact profile that enables easier transport, faster staging, and seamless integration with distributed units operating across dispersed positions. Ground clearance sits at 18 inches. The turning radius is 7.5 feet — tight enough to operate in urban terrain and confined maneuver spaces where larger vehicles struggle. Top speed in high range reaches 53 miles per hour, with a low-range setting at 20 miles per hour for deliberate movement. The drivetrain is all-electric, delivering 30 miles of silent range — a characteristic with obvious tactical value when acoustic signature determines whether a reconnaissance vehicle gets detected before it completes its mission. Fording depth of 48 inches means the M1 can cross water obstacles that would stop most wheeled platforms without modification.
That fording capability connects directly to the Marine Corps mission set the M1 is built around. The vehicle is designed to move quickly across contested littoral environments, urban terrain, and tight maneuver spaces — the exact operating conditions that define Marine Corps Force Design 2030, the Corps’ ongoing structural and doctrinal transformation for large-scale Pacific combat. Dispersed operations across islands and coastal zones, where heavy armor is hard to transport and human exposure to enemy fires must be minimized, demand exactly what the M1 offers: a compact, fast, electrically silent platform that can be rapidly deployed and reconfigured for whatever the mission requires.
The RIPSAW name carries history. Howe & Howe, the Maine-based company Textron operates as a subsidiary, has been building RIPSAW vehicles for over a decade across various programs. The M1 represents the latest expansion of that compact robotic platform lineage, reoriented toward Marine Corps requirements — specifically as a robotic force multiplier for the Advanced Reconnaissance Vehicle and the Amphibious Combat Vehicle, the two manned platforms it is designed to operate alongside under Force Design 2030.
The missions the M1 demonstrator is built to support are operationally significant. Hard-kill counter-UAS — physically destroying enemy drones rather than jamming them — is one of the most pressing tactical problems facing ground forces across every theater where drones have proliferated. Reconnaissance, surveillance, and target acquisition extend the sensor reach of a formation without requiring a Marine to move into an exposed position. The vehicle is also envisioned as a loitering munition launch platform — putting precision fires into the fight from a ground vehicle without requiring a manned aircraft or fixed launcher. The multi-tube launcher array visible on the demonstrator’s flat deck underscores that the fires mission is not theoretical. That combination of counter-drone, reconnaissance, and strike capability in a single unmanned wheeled platform is a meaningful tactical package.
The flat-deck payload architecture is central to the M1’s value proposition. Simple deck integration allows operators to swap mission kits — sensor packages, launcher systems, logistics loads, electronic warfare payloads — without specialized tools or prolonged reconfiguration time. A vehicle that arrives configured for reconnaissance can be reconfigured for counter-UAS or logistics support at the unit level, without returning to a depot. That flexibility is what the Marine Corps means when it talks about doing more with less.
Sara Willett, Vice President of Programs at Textron Systems, framed the demonstrator’s purpose directly: “The M1 technology demonstrator shows the art of the possible for how UGVs can support the Marine Corps’ missions.” She elaborated on the engineering approach: “Along with Howe & Howe, we took our experience in autonomous robotic systems across land, air and sea — the same domains the Marine Corps’ missions live — to develop this system that demonstrates our ability to scale the SWAP up or down, all while maintaining the common robotic core that enables our UGVs to provide exceptional transportability and battlefield agility.”
The MOSA design philosophy running through the M1 is not just an engineering preference — it is increasingly a requirement in Department of War procurement. Open architecture systems allow government and third-party developers to integrate new capabilities, sensors, and software without being locked into a single vendor’s proprietary stack. For an unmanned ground vehicle that will need to accept new payloads, updated autonomy software, and evolving mission equipment over a service life that could span decades, MOSA compliance is the difference between a platform that stays current and one that becomes a maintenance burden.

Oshkosh shows expeditionary power with ship-killing drone truck at Marine Expo
Emily Ryan Miller
Defence Blog

Key Points
* Oshkosh Defense is exhibiting the ROGUE-Fires autonomous anti-ship missile launcher and upgraded MTVR 4x4 at Modern Day Marine from April 28–30, 2026.
* ROGUE-Fires pairs the Navy/Marine Expeditionary Ship Interdiction System with Oshkosh's JLTV platform for remotely operated coastal sea denial missions.
Oshkosh Defense is rolling two significant platforms onto the Modern Day Marine exhibition floor this week — including an autonomous ground vehicle armed with anti-ship missiles that represents one of the Marine Corps’ most consequential doctrinal shifts in a generation.
The company will exhibit at Modern Day Marine from April 28 through 30, 2026, showcasing the Remotely Operated Ground Unit for Expeditionary Fires, known as ROGUE-Fires, alongside an upgraded variant of the Medium Tactical Vehicle Replacement. Both platforms speak to the same underlying Marine Corps priority: the ability to disperse, move, and sustain combat power across contested maritime environments without concentrating forces in ways that make them easy targets.
ROGUE-Fires is the more operationally striking of the two. Built on Oshkosh’s Joint Light Tactical Vehicle platform — the JLTV, already the Marine Corps’ primary light protected vehicle — it carries the Navy/Marine Expeditionary Ship Interdiction System, or NMESIS, which is itself the launch vehicle for the Naval Strike Missile. The result is a ground-based, autonomously operated platform that can fire anti-ship missiles from coastal terrain, deny adversary naval forces access to contested waterways, and then move before an enemy can locate and engage it. ROGUE-Fires has no one in the cab. Marines operate it remotely, which means the vehicle can be pushed forward into positions where the risk of direct fire, counter-battery, or air attack would make a crewed vehicle too costly to employ.
The sea denial mission ROGUE-Fires supports is central to how the Marine Corps intends to fight in a high-end Pacific conflict. The Force Design 2030 concept that has reshaped Marine Corps structure and doctrine over the past several years is built around the idea of small, dispersed units operating from islands and coastal terrain, using anti-ship missiles and other long-range fires to shape the maritime environment and support naval campaigns. A ground-launched anti-ship missile system that can be positioned, fired, and relocated without exposing a crew to direct risk is exactly the kind of capability that concept requires. The JLTV platform underneath ROGUE-Fires provides the mobility to move across the austere terrain those island positions typically offer — unpaved tracks, beaches, jungle edges — while the autonomous operation capability allows the vehicle to be employed in places and postures that would be operationally untenable for a crewed system.
The Naval Strike Missile, which NMESIS carries, is a long-range precision anti-ship weapon developed by Kongsberg and Raytheon. It flies a sea-skimming profile at extended range, uses terrain-following navigation in its approach phase, and carries an active radar seeker for terminal homing. Its combination of range, precision, and low flight profile makes it difficult to intercept and capable of threatening surface combatants well beyond visual range. On a ground vehicle that can be repositioned rapidly and operated remotely, those characteristics translate into a coastal defense and sea denial capability that does not require a ship or aircraft to deliver — and that is survivable in a way that fixed coastal missile batteries are not.
The second platform Oshkosh is displaying at Modern Day Marine is less dramatic but arguably just as operationally important. The MTVR 4×4 — Medium Tactical Vehicle Replacement — is the Marine Corps’ primary medium logistics truck, a platform that has been hauling ammunition, fuel, water, food, and equipment across every operational environment the Corps has operated in for decades. The variant on display comes equipped with exportable power and enhanced lighting, upgrades that extend what the vehicle can do beyond pure cargo hauling. Exportable power allows the MTVR to serve as a mobile power source for forward units, feeding communications equipment, sensors, command post systems, and other electrical loads without requiring a separate generator. Enhanced lighting extends the vehicle’s operational utility in low-light and nighttime environments, which matters for logistics operations that increasingly need to move at night to avoid aerial observation and attack.
Those may sound like incremental improvements, but for a logistics vehicle that forms the backbone of Marine Corps ground sustainment, they represent meaningful capability additions. Distributed operations of the kind Force Design 2030 envisions place enormous stress on logistics — small units operating from dispersed positions across island terrain cannot rely on centralized supply points the way conventional formations do. They need organic power generation, the ability to operate at night, and vehicles that can navigate austere terrain to reach positions that heavier trucks cannot access. The MTVR 4×4’s upgrades push it further in each of those directions while, as Oshkosh notes, extending the platform’s service life rather than requiring a wholesale replacement.
Pat Williams, Chief Program Officer at Oshkosh Defense, framed the company’s approach in terms that bridge both platforms: “Mobility enables how Marines fight and sustain combat power forward, and Oshkosh brings that capability to every platform we deliver. We develop robust, versatile platforms and provide the lifecycle support needed to keep them ready, relevant, and effective in contested environments. From autonomous fires to modernized mobility and integrated sustainment, our approach connects capability with long-term performance in the field.”
Modern Day Marine, held annually in the Washington D.C. area, is the Marine Corps’ primary exposition for industry to present capability to service leadership, acquisition officials, and operators. Oshkosh Defense is in booth 2307. The proximity of ROGUE-Fires and the upgraded MTVR on the same exhibition floor reflects a procurement reality the Marine Corps lives with constantly: winning a high-end maritime fight requires both the ability to threaten enemy ships with precision missiles and the ability to keep the force fed, fueled, and powered in the austere locations from which those missiles are fired. Neither capability is sufficient without the other, and Oshkosh is making the case that it can deliver both.

General Dynamics Showcases ARV-30 at Modern Day Marine
Colton Jones
Defence Blog

Key Points
* General Dynamics displayed the ARV-30 8×8 reconnaissance vehicle, RAMPART CMOSS chassis, PhantomLink laser comms, and three bridging systems at Modern Day Marine April 28-30.
* The COBRA assault bridge integrated on a KOMODO UGV from Dok-Ing is scheduled to begin testing in July 2026.
General Dynamics showed up to Modern Day Marine 2026 with three business units, two booth numbers, and enough hardware to stock a small army — from a next-generation 8×8 reconnaissance vehicle with a 30mm cannon to an assault bridge mounted on an unmanned ground vehicle scheduled to begin testing in July.
The company’s presence at the April 28-30 exposition at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington, D.C., spans land systems, mission systems, and European land systems — a cross-section of General Dynamics’ defense portfolio that reflects how comprehensively the corporation has positioned itself around the Marine Corps’ modernization priorities under Force Design 2030.
The headline platform at General Dynamics Land Systems’ Booth 2206 is the Advanced Reconnaissance Vehicle ARV-30, an 8×8 wheeled platform mounting a 30mm cannon and designed to deliver lethality while expanding the reconnaissance network across the modern battlefield. The ARV-30 is built to complement the ARV-C4UAS variant — the counter-drone configuration of the same platform family — and integrates multidomain sensor nodes with a remote turret that combines firepower, situational awareness, and connectivity in a single vehicle. Open architecture, automated data fusion, and cybersecurity measures built into the design allow Marine Corps units to coordinate across manned and unmanned assets simultaneously, extending command and control reach into complex environments where the Corps increasingly expects to fight. The ARV-30 is not a future concept — it is a platform on the show floor, in front of the acquisition officials and operators who will decide what the Corps buys next.
Sharing the Land Systems booth is the Digital Twin Sustainment Suite, a software system that takes a different but equally important angle on Marine Corps readiness. DTSS comprises three modules — self-guided e-learning, instructor-led training, and advanced maintenance — and is designed to improve how ground combat vehicle units train and maintain their equipment. The digital environment DTSS creates improves learning retention, training throughput, and maintenance efficiency for instructors, students, and maintainers alike. As part of the Integrated Logistics Support plan for ground vehicles, it addresses the sustainment side of the readiness equation that often gets less attention than the platforms themselves but determines whether those platforms are actually available when needed.
General Dynamics Mission Systems occupies Booth 2113 with a portfolio that runs from encryption to laser communications to assured positioning — the electronic and cyber backbone that modern military operations depend on but rarely see discussed alongside the vehicles and weapons that dominate defense coverage.
The RAMPART CMOSS Chassis is among the more technically ambitious items on display. Designed to enable a standards-based C5ISR ecosystem for the joint force, the chassis collapses multiple capabilities — assured positioning, navigation and timing, radio, and electronic warfare — into a single system built around 3U OpenVPX processor cards that can be inserted and upgraded rapidly. It fits within the SINCGARS radio space in any vehicle or platform, meaning it can go wherever a radio goes without requiring vehicle modification. The system runs at 100 gigabit interconnect speed, providing the data throughput that current and future sensor and communications loads will demand.
PhantomLink addresses a different communications challenge. The Free Space Optics system uses laser communications to provide high-bandwidth transport for mobile command posts, combining an optical terminal with a waveform-adaptable optical modem. The system operates outside regulated spectrum — meaning no frequency coordination, no spectrum deconfliction, and rapid deployment wherever military operations require it. Advanced error correction and pointing, acquisition, and tracking algorithms give it high link availability even in challenging atmospheric conditions, while its laser-based nature makes it inherently difficult to intercept. For a command post that needs bandwidth and doesn’t want its communications traffic exploited, PhantomLink offers a capability that radio frequency systems cannot replicate.
GPS Source’s Assured Positioning, Navigation and Timing solutions — Fight Tonight and the Modified Reception Pattern Antenna — address the GPS-challenged environments that have become a standard feature of contested operating areas. The core of the system, the ED3M PNT Hub, has over 1,000 actively fielded units deployed across Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps platforms worldwide. The encryption portfolio rounding out the Mission Systems display — TACLANE high assurance encryptors, the Sectéra vIPer Universal Secure Phone, the ProtecD@R Multi-Platform Encryptor, and the GEM One Encryptor Manager — represents the classified communications and data protection layer that every other system in the booth depends on to operate securely.
General Dynamics European Land Systems, also at Booth 2206, brings three bridging systems that address the gap-crossing requirement that ground forces have needed solutions for since armies first encountered rivers and obstacles. The COBRA Armored Assault Bridge, displayed integrated onto a KOMODO unmanned ground vehicle from Dok-Ing, is the most forward-leaning of the three — a bridge layer that can be attached to the UGV while retaining all of the carrier vehicle’s original functions, capable of supporting loads up to MLC 120. Testing on the KOMODO is scheduled to begin in July, making this a system with a near-term milestone attached to its show floor appearance. The HYDRA Multifunctional Floating Platform, a modular pontoon system capable of functioning as ferry, floating bridge, transport boat, or working platform up to MLC 50, and the VIPER Modular Trackway Bridge integrated onto a Joint Light Tactical Vehicle — configurable in 5, 7, or 9-meter spans up to MLC 50 — complete a bridging portfolio that gives tactical units gap-crossing options from light to heavy without depending on dedicated combat engineer assets.

China is America’s Military Equal Now And In Any Future Fight, Marine General Warns
Howard Altman
The War Zone

Faced with the rapidly growing China threat, the U.S. has to start hardening its bases now, said Marine Lt. Gen. Stephen Sklenka.
The general in charge of keeping the United States Marine Corps sustained in a fight dismisses the notion that China poses a near-peer threat to the U.S. It’s far more serious and will make the currently paused conflict with Iran pale by comparison should the two superpowers come to blows, said Lt. Gen. Stephen Sklenka, the USMC Deputy Commandant for Installations and Logistics. 
“There is no threat that looms larger than the People’s Republic of China,” Sklenka said during the 2026 Modern Day Marine Expo in Washington, D.C. “Don’t listen to this garbage about them being a near peer. They’re a peer because they rival us in nearly every single measure of national influence.”
As the “lead strategist” and former Deputy Commander of U.S. INDOPACOM, Sklenka said he “got to be pretty familiar with how General Secretary Xi was thinking and what his intentions are.”
The Chinese leader’s “vision is to upend the international structure [and] supplant us as the global leaders. And in many ways, it’s been Xi’s thinking, his vision, that has helped my own thinking about the demands of modern warfare, particularly when waged in the Pacific and particularly waged against a peer adversary, something that’s new to all of us.”
Epic Fury offers some sobering lessons, Sklenka noted. While the U.S. is able to pour forces into theater via uncontested skies and largely uncontested seas, Iran was still able to inflict a great deal of pain on America and its allies during the fighting. And, it still is, economically through an ongoing closure of the Strait of Hormuz. A fight with China would be far worse, Sklenka cautioned.
“We’re about two months into combat operations with Epic Fury. We’ve got service members who have tragically been wounded and killed by Iran. They’ve launched hundreds of drones and ballistic missiles at our bases and our allies throughout the region – Israel, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait, Jordan – reinforcing the point that the bases that we have, they’re no longer administrative garrison sanctuaries. We really need to start looking at our bases as warfighting formations, just as critical of a warfighting formation as our divisions, wings and [Marine Expeditionary Units] MEUs.”
We’ll talk more about that later in this story.
You can see damage to U.S. bases in the Middle East in the following satellite images.
Iran has “illustrated how a mid-tier power can hold a significantly superior force at risk,” Sklenka suggested. “As a learning organization, we ask ourselves, ‘how do we carry every lesson from this fight forward, and how do we ensure that we’re equally prepared to dominate the conflict with China?’”
“Think about the complexities and complications that we’re [facing] with Iran, and then ask yourself, ‘how are we going to respond and act when we’re going up against a nation that’s number two in national GDP?’” he added. “The fact is that Iran doesn’t have anywhere near China’s economic might. They don’t have their industrial base. They certainly don’t have their military modernization trajectory.”
“Over the last 10 to 15 years, the Chinese manufacturing base has been out-producing us,” Sklenka posited. “Xi is on a wartime footing. There’s no doubt about that. It’s underpinned by an industrial base that’s out producing the world in ships and steel, precious minerals and satellites, munitions.”
China’s “shipbuilding capacity is reported to be 230 times the capacity that the United States has,” the general continued. “They more than doubled their nuclear powered submarine construction, their arsenal of ballistic and cruise missiles is undergoing a rapid expansion.”
“Their nuclear stockpile is the fastest growing in the world. They’re pursuing innovative, intelligentized warfare tactics,” Sklenka pointed out. “They’re using artificial intelligence, drone swarms, exploring the cognitive and innovative domains to achieve their dominance. They’re building a military design to dominate the Pacific, and I believe ultimately beyond the Pacific.”
China’s intent, Sklenka added, “is clear. They want to regain that self-identified moniker of the Middle Kingdom, and they want to resume what they believe is their rightful place in the world. They’re not interested in sharing that position with us or with anybody else. General Secretary Xi’s view is that it’s their time, and this is the context. I bring that all up for our transformation.”
“None of us in uniform today have ever had to operate in a world where a legitimate peer simultaneously contests us in every single domain,” said Sklenka. “We are talking terrestrially and non-terrestrially, kinetically and non-kinetically. We’re going to have to fight to get to that fight, and we’re going to have to embrace these challenges and not operate under the auspices of how we did in the 80s and 90s. History is proven, and our current operations are confirmed, that the society that can project and sustain power and sustain their forces most effectively, ultimately, they prevail.”
Looking to the future, Sklenka echoed warnings that TWZ has made for years about the vulnerability of U.S. military installations, both at home and abroad. No increases in magazine depth, additional weapons systems or advancements with AI and other new technologies will ultimately matter “if you can’t get off the installation in the first place,” he stated. “The ability to mobilize and deploy is underpinned by the readiness of our installations. It’s a concept that we’re just now really starting to wrestle with.”
“Our bases, posts and stations…are the front lines of decisive terrain. And I’m not just talking about those in the first island chain. This isn’t just [Marine Corps Installations Pacific] MCIPAC. Our CONUS installations are subject to non-kinetic attacks. Non kinetic-attacks, they’re going to be just as debilitating and just as strategically consequential as any kinetic attack that’s going to be out there. And they’re going to carry an air of non-attrition that’s designed to both confuse decision makers and sow chaos during the most critical phases of the fight, the beginning, the first shots of that next war.”
That first salvo, Sklenka said, is most likely not going to be delivered by a missile or bomber.
“They’re likely not going to be fired in the South China Sea or in the Taiwan Strait,” he explained. “They’re going to be a cyber attack against a power grid on our base, a disinformation campaign targeting military families or a drone swarm coming off one of our installations.”
The localized drone attack concern is exactly what TWZ has long predicted and became a reality last year in Russia and Iran. Last June, Ukraine launched Operation Spider Web, an audacious near-field attack on Russian air bases, destroying a large number of strategic bombers with remotely operated drones set up in trucks placed near those installations.
Spider Web was followed about two weeks later by an operation Israel carried out, using drones pre-positioned inside Iran to attack the Islamic Republic’s air defenses.
You can see video of one attack during Operation Spider Web below.
“I think our installations have to start being treated as warfighting platforms,” Sklenka proclaimed. “We need the best solutions for counter UAS. We got to quit talking about it, start delivering that. We need resilient power. You have to be able to absorb when our communications are cut and continue those communications actions. We need hardened infrastructure and a hard network.”
His plea for hardening infrastructure runs counter to thinking by some U.S. military leaders, particularly in the Pacific, who have downplayed the need to do more to physically harden existing bases. You can read more about that in our story here.
Sklenka had other suggestions for protecting installations.
“We need integrated base defense, and we need industry’s help to do all this,” he urged. “We’re not going to be just fighting from our bases. In many cases, we’re going to be fighting for those bases. That’s a concept that’s new to us. We got to start embracing that.”

Forterra, Polaris tout new autonomous vehicle for CASEVAC, logistics
Carley Welch
Breaking Defense

The MESA vehicle is designed for both logistics and casualty evacuation operations up to the "last tactical mile."
WASHINGTON — Autonomy developer Forterra and vehicle manufacturer Polaris announced today a new vehicle, dubbed MESA, designed for casualty evacuation (CASEVAC) and logistics missions. 
The platform, unveiled today at the annual Modern Day Marine expo, is based on a modified Polaris Ranger XD 1500 and uses Forterra’s AutoDrive autonomy stack and the company’s Vektor communications capability designed to work in low-bandwidth environments, the companies said in a release today.
“Because MESA is built in direct partnership with Polaris, every vehicle comes off the same market-leading production line that delivers Polaris platforms globally, with all modifications executed alongside the OEM [original equipment manufacturer.] This results in a more robust, fully integrated platform without aftermarket changes to the base vehicle chassis,”  Pat Acox, Vice President of Defense Growth at Forterra said in the release.
The companies said the vehicle has L-track mounting and a flat deck design, allowing for interchangeable payloads of up to 2,000 lbs. John LaFata, engineering manager at Polaris, said in the release that the Ranger XD 1500 is also designed to operate in “extreme terrain.” 
The companies said the vehicle would be key for operations in the “last tactical mile” — the treacherous area between support units and the forward lines where supplies, equipment and personnel must be moved while often facing risky adversarail encounters.
The Marine Corps has shown interest in unmanned ground vehicles, and the announcement comes about two weeks after the Army’s Mission Autonomy Capability Program Executive office published a call to industry looking for autonomous vehicles capable of last tactical mile CASEVAC missions and logistics operations.
“This advanced UGV [unmanned ground vehicle], owned by maneuver formations, will both sustain Platoon and Company formations by delivering essential supplies/energy and will evacuate wounded personnel from the point of injury to a casualty collection point,” the Commercial Solutions Opening reads. “This dual use UGV shall feature a configurable payload to meet the dynamic needs of maneuver formations.” 
Scott Sanders, chief growth officer at Forterra, told Breaking Defense today on the sidelines of the Modern Day Marine expo that Forterra has the “intent to bid” on a potential competition that could derive from the CSO. He said the company plans to enter “both as a partner with some other primes,” and “likely” as a prime themselves as well.
Forterra’s AutoDrive is currently integrated into Marine-owned Joint Light Tactical Vehicles for the service’s Remotely Operated Ground Unit for Expeditionary (ROGUE) Fires program. It’s also integrated into BAE Systems’ Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle for an experimental autonomous AMPV prototype, and Forterra was set to incorporate the stack into the Army’s now paused ISV unmanned program, otherwise known as UxS.
“By combining field proven autonomy with secure, software defined communication capabilities, the MESA enables forces to deploy coordinated, adaptive impact across a wide range of missions without increasing?additional?risk to the warfighter,” today’s release read. 
UPDATED: 4/28/2026 at 10:35 a.m. ET to include comments from Forterra and Polaris regarding a recent Army CSO.
? 
How the F-35 is changing Marine airpower
David Roza
Task & Purpose

The F-35 may be the most capable fighter aircraft the Marines have ever flown, but it also might be the most complicated.
After decades of flying the AV-8B Harrier II and the F/A-18 Hornet, the Marine Corps is going all in on the F-35.
Besides being stealthy, the jet has far more advanced sensing and data-sharing tools than anything the Marine Corps has flown in the past, an asset that service officials say will be vital on future battlefields.
But the F-35 is as complicated as it is capable, and bringing a jet that advanced into the demolition derby of expeditionary warfare requires a shift in how the Marine Corps thinks about aviation logistics.
Ride the Lightning
In the Air Force, fighter aircraft are a means of securing the skies, and in the Navy, they are a means of protecting the fleet. But in the Marine Corps, fighters (and everything else) exist to help the grunts on the ground through reconnaissance, strike missions and close air support.
The F-35 is capable of all three of those missions, but perhaps no fighter has ever been as good at collecting and relaying information. The jet is packed with radio, infrared, laser, and electro-optical sensors, and it can fuse all the information from those sensors and send it out.
That’s a game-changer, according to retired Marine Lt. Col. Dave Berke, who, among many other things, was the first operational F-35B pilot. Berke said that if he were to create a hierarchy of things needed to be successful in warfare, information and situational awareness would be at the top. 
“It’s almost startling how much information and awareness you have” with the F-35, he said. “And the more information awareness you have, the better suited you are to provide the right type of support to the ground forces when they need it and how they need it.”
In other words, the F-35 acts like a giant snowplow for the fog of war. The jet’s stealth characteristics let it see without being seen, which helps when rival powers such as Russia and China have stacks of radars and anti-air missiles. That stealth, combined with the F-35B’s ability to operate from very short runways, opens up greater access to the battlefield compared to older aircraft, Berke said.
Shoot n’ scoot
These strengths make the F-35B “the centerpiece” of the Marine Corps’ tactical aviation modernization effort, the service told Task & Purpose.
The jet’s arrival comes as the Marines prepare for a shift in aviation tactics. While pilots in the Global War on Terror could jump directly into supporting ground troops, a conflict with China or Russia might require them to clear the airspace first by shooting down enemy aircraft or suppressing air defenses with missiles or electronic warfare.
Once the airspace is clear, those pilots might land to gas up and rearm before serving as scouts, strike platforms, or spotters for other aircraft. Then the whole process might start all over again as U.S. troops move out to avoid being targeted by long-range missiles. 
Meanwhile, the Marines are also looking into a fleet of uncrewed platforms to help with anything from strikes to transporting cargo to electronic warfare, and the F-35’s data-fusing capabilities could give it a key part to play in any of that.
Challenges
The F-35 is plenty capable, but it is also complicated. In 2023, the Pentagon reported that only 51% of America’s F-35 fleet could perform at least one of its missions at any given time. The historical goal is 65%. Combat-coded squadrons, which generally have newer aircraft and higher priority for spare parts, stood at 61%. 
A Pentagon report published in March said “the operational suitability of the F-35 fleet continues to fall short of service expectations,” though it did not provide updated statistics.
That may not bode well for isolated battlefields like the kind where Marines expect to operate F-35Bs. World War II ground crews struggled to maintain aircraft on isolated islands such as Guadalcanal, and those aircraft were far simpler than the F-35. 
The Marines are looking to use artificial intelligence to predict what parts they need, rather than be caught flat-footed when a part breaks in the field.
“Our intent is … to predict when a part is going to fail and then change it at a time of our choosing, so that we don’t have to send that rescue package forward to go and repair that aircraft and bring it back home,” Col. Richard Rusnok, who is helping plan the future of Marine aviation, told Task & Purpose. 
Some Marines seem to have a head start. At a training exercise in California last year, The War Zone reported that F-35B squadrons “showed an extraordinary ability to get maintenance done with far fewer tools and equipment than they would normally have” at home station. Learn more about the Marine F-35 transformation by watching our latest YouTube video here.

This is what we know about the Maritime Raid Force used to seize Iranian vessel
Jeff Schogol
Task & Purpose

A Maritime Raid Force, which consists of both reconnaissance and infantry Marines, boarded and seized an Iranian vessel on April 19.
On Sunday, Marines from the amphibious assault ship USS Tripoli fast-roped from helicopters onto the deck of the Iranian cargo ship M/V Touska to take custody of the vessel, the first seizure of the week-long U.S. military blockade of Iranian ports. The Touska was first disabled by sailors on the Navy destroyer USS Spruance, who fired several shots from its 5-inch MK 45 gun at the vessel’s engine room.
Carried out under the cover of darkness, the operation highlighted the capabilities of a small, highly trained group of Marines known as a Maritime Raid Force, or MRF, that specializes in boarding and seizing vessels at sea.
Currently, the 2,200-strong 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit embarked on the Tripoli Amphibious Ready Group is deployed to the Middle East. A U.S. official confirmed to Task & Purpose that the Marines who boarded the M/V Touska were with the unit’s MRF.
A retired Marine special operations officer told Task & Purpose that embarked MRFs train for Visit, Board, Search and Seizure, or VBSS, missions, like the operation to take control of the Iranian cargo vessel.
In another VBSS operation, a Maritime Raid Force successfully retook the container M/V Magellan Star in September 2010, capturing nine Somali pirates and freeing the ship’s crew, all without firing a shot.
These missions are so complex and dangerous that preparing for them requires a unit to put in between six months and a year of specialized training, said the retired Marine, who spent a total of more than 20 years’ operational experience in both U.S. Marine Forces Special Operations Command and force reconnaissance units.
“You need people who can do it,” the retired Marine said. “They’ve got the mental prowess to kind of overcome that fear and execute it. Then, if they got into any kind of shooting onboard that ship, they have to have people who are very capable with what’s called close-quarter battle marksmanship. They have to be able to make split-second decisions and move very quickly inside of confined spaces, where you need people who have been well rehearsed in doing that. You have to have very specific people who are trained to do that.”
When embarked with an MEU, he said, the team works directly for the commander of a Marine Expeditionary Unit, he said. MRFs pull members from reconnaissance and infantry Marines and set up their own communications and dedicated air support, said the retired officer.
The danger involved with VBSS missions was painfully illustrated in January 2024, when a Navy SEAL fell overboard while trying to climb onto a ship off Somalia. Another SEAL jumped in after him. Both drowned.
Deliberate search after a helicopter raid
The Marines who seized the vessel used the “top-down” approach by lowering themselves onto the vessel’s deck from helicopters, said Jonathan Schroden, an expert on Marine Corps force design with CNA, a Washington, D.C.-based not-for-profit research and analysis organization.
“There’s not a lot of other Marines outside of the [U.S. Marine Forces Special Operations Command] environment who are trained to rappel from helicopters like that,” Schroden told Task & Purpose. “So, that particular mode of insertion is something that the [Maritime Raid Force] is specifically trained to do.”
Members of a Maritime Raid Force also practice the “bottom-up” approach to boarding missions, in which they approach a ship in rigid hull inflatable boats and then use ladders to climb up the vessel’s side, Schroden said. 
“A lot of people think that only the Navy SEALs have the ability to board and potentially seize ships, but this is a mission that the Marine Corps does and has trained to for decades, and is something that every Marine Expeditionary Unit that deploys has within its capability set the ability to do,” Schroden said.

Marine Corps fields 3,500 first-person view attack drones
Riley Ceder
The Marine Corps Times

The U.S. Marine Corps has accumulated thousands of first-person view drones over the span of several months, with thousands more on the way, the service said Thursday.
The meteoric rise of the service’s autonomous weapons stockpile was a result of a clear edict from the top down and service member adaptability, according to Commanding Officer of the Weapons Training Battalion Col. Scott Cuomo, who spoke at the Modern Day Marine exposition in Washington.
“Rewind your brain to October,” Cuomo said. “We had zero FPV attack drones in the United States. We have over 3,500 right now.”
First-person view drones allow operators to watch a live feed through either goggles or a screen that provide visuals from the drone’s vantage point. Many weigh several pounds, can carry explosives and travel close to 100 mph.
Once the top brass signaled the service’s shift toward modernizing its unmanned strike capabilities, the Marine Corps responded swiftly, ramping up the service’s development and utilization of FPVs.
In January 2025, Commanding Generals of Training Command Maj. Gen. Anthony M. Henderson and Marine Corps Warfighting Laboratory Brig. Gen. Simon M. Doran launched the Marine Corps Attack Drone Team, recognizing the necessity of first-person view drones after the proliferation of the technology during the war in Ukraine.
The strides came with the blessing of Marine Corps Commandant Gen. Eric Smith, a vocal proponent of getting FPV drones into the hands of Marines quickly.
The team, based out of Marine Corps Base Quantico, works in lockstep with the Marine Corps Warfighting Laboratory to integrate the drones into the Fleet Marine Force.
Part of the integration includes increasing troops’ proficiency with the technologies through Marine Corps attack drone competitions.
Marines from 3rd Marine Littoral Regiment, 3rd Marine Expeditionary Force, participated in the first attack drone competition in Okinawa, Japan, from Dec. 3 to 12, 2025.
By August 2025, the service issued an official 90-page handbook providing instructions on how to properly employ drones against adversaries.
Most recently, Marines with the 3rd Marine Littoral Regiment operated drones as part of the Marine Corps Attack Drone Competition at Schofield Barracks, Hawaii, in March 2026.
Over a two-week period, the team trained and certified U.S. Marines as drone operators, attack drone instructors and payload specialist instructors, according to a Marine Corps X post.
And during a live-fire event on April 27 at Exercise Balikatan in the Philippines, the Marine Corps conducted the first FPV attack drone strike that joint forces have executed in that part of the world, Cuomo said.
The Pentagon issued a call to defense industry executives in December 2025 to help it acquire and deploy over 300,000 small one-way attack drones by 2028 as part of a $1 billion initiative. The Marine Corps announced shortly after that it was launching six drone training programs open to any MOS.
Cuomo likened the service’s quick adoption and mastery of drone technology to a previous skill challenge it faced.
“The Marine Corps was not very good at marksmanship at the turn of the 20th century,” Cuomo said. “So what did our ninth commandant do? He created the Marine Corps Shooting Team. And now we all know the Marine Corps is ... really good at shooting.”

Marine Corps eyes modernization plan for amphibious combat vehicles
Copilot
Copilot

Less than six years after fielding its Amphibious Combat Vehicle, the U.S. Marine Corps is inviting industry proposals for a five-to-ten-year modernization program. The effort targets improvements in lethality, mobility, communications, and protection while preserving the vehicle’s amphibious capabilities. It reflects a broader U.S. defense shift toward rapidly evolving platforms to address emerging threats.
Marine Corps seeks industry input for ACV upgrades
At the Modern Day Marine conference, program manager Chris Melkonian outlined a long-term plan to enhance the Amphibious Combat Vehicle (ACV), which succeeded the decades-old Assault Amphibious Vehicle. The roadmap spans five to ten years, focusing on five core capability lanes—shoot, move, communicate, carry, and detect—and fourteen specific upgrade areas such as counter-drone weapons, mobility improvements, and active protection systems. The initiative coincides with the rollout of the ACV-30mm and ACV-Recovery variants through 2027, reflecting the service’s intent to keep pace with evolving amphibious warfare demands.
From AAV to ACV: the evolution of U.S. amphibious capability
The ACV offers significant advances over its predecessor, enabling ship-to-shore operations across open oceans while providing armored support for infantry ashore. Its modular approach allows for different mission-specific variants, including armed and recovery versions, enhancing flexibility in amphibious operations. The current modernization push underscores the importance of sustaining technological superiority in contested littoral environments.
Why the Navy’s autonomous vessel push matters for amphibious warfare
Textron Systems will deliver TSUNAMI Uncrewed Surface Vessels for Navy trials in Key West, where they will demonstrate cooperative intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance with Littoral Combat Ships. Built on commercial ship platforms and autonomous control systems, these craft are designed for rapid deployment and multi-mission use. Their potential roles include extending surveillance coverage and supporting naval operations in coastal environments.
Joint coastal defense drills highlight operational needs
In Exercise Balikatan in Palawan, Philippine, U.S., Australian, and New Zealand forces rehearsed defending against a simulated amphibious landing using coordinated air, land, and maritime assets. The drill featured fighter jets, rocket systems, artillery, and armored vehicles in a layered defense to prevent hostile forces from establishing a foothold. Such training reflects the type of contested littoral conditions modernized ACVs may encounter alongside allied capabilities.

NASCAR’s RCR unveils six-wheel ‘mothership’ at marine expo debut
Debrup Chaudhuri
Daytona Racing Digest

In a defence market that is filled with concepts and prototypes, Richard Childress Racing turned up to the Modern Day Marine show floor with a six-wheel platform that is turning heads.
The team that won 6 titles with Dale Earnhardt and 15 across the three tiers of NASCAR has been moving towards defence equipment manufacturing, merging its high precision engineering for racing with the same need for building defence equipment.
RCR turned up with a 6-Wheeled-Adaptable Platform at the Marine Expo in Washington, D.C., called the Mothership. It’s a term justified by its ground mobile platform, meant to be integrated with advanced defence technologies. Mothership is set to serve as a mobile base for launching both drones and missiles. 
Mothership is described by RCR as a “launch-anywhere” capability across multiple domains. It shifts far away from what the public expects to see under the banner  RCR Manufacturing Solutions.
What made the Mothership a special exhibit was its previous appearance, a successful Lockheed Martin demonstration. Mike Verlander, President of RCR Enterprises, LLC, spoke about the connection between RCR’s racing heritage and defence ambition.
“Using the same manufacturing, machining, and engineering capabilities that drive our race teams and engine company, RCR Enterprises is becoming a trusted integrator in the defense space, particularly in ground mobility, as proven by our recent successful Lockheed Martin JQL VL demonstrations. 
Mothership is described as lightweight and modular, qualities that the Marine Corps prioritizes in ground vehicles, with an eye out for its intended purpose of expeditionary operations.
“This lightweight modular platform defines adaptability and aligns itself with the Marine mentality of doing more with less,” said Verlander.
The Lockheed Test Stamp 
While the Mothership perfectly aligns with Marine mentality, it stands out because it has already demonstrated the defensive capabilities it boasts. Ahead of its public launch, it took part in a joint demonstration with leading aerospace and defence company Lockheed Martin.
Mothership was used as a ground-based mobile unit for Lockheed Martin’s JAGM Quad Launcher(JQL). During the demonstration in January, it was successful in providing a stable base for a 90-degree launch of the Joint-Air-to-Ground Missile.
Richard Childress Racing has been moving into the role of a defence equipment manufacturer since 2014, but their focus on building parts and equipment for not just defence but also aerospace solutions increased after the introduction of the Next Gen car in 2022, which reduced the team’s role in building their own chassis.
You can read more on the Daytona Racing Digest!

RCR unveils six-wheel 'Mothership' after live missile demo
Copilot
Copilot

Richard Childress Racing presented its six-wheeled 'Mothership' ground-mobile platform at the Modern Day Marine Expo in Washington, D.C., highlighting its role as a launch base for drones and missiles. The lightweight, modular vehicle has already been proven in a Lockheed Martin Joint Air-to-Ground Missile launch demonstration, showing its readiness for expeditionary operations. This debut underscores RCR’s growing presence in defense manufacturing, leveraging its NASCAR engineering expertise.
RCR's 'Mothership' makes public debut at marine expo
Richard Childress Racing showcased its 6-Wheeled Adaptable Platform, known as the 'Mothership,' at the Modern Day Marine Expo in Washington, D.C. The platform is designed as a mobile base for launching drones and missiles, with what RCR describes as a “launch-anywhere” capability. Its modular and lightweight design aligns with the Marine Corps’ focus on adaptable, expeditionary ground vehicles. 
Significance of the Lockheed Martin demonstration
- The Mothership participated in a Joint Air-to-Ground Missile vertical launch demonstration before its public debut
- The test confirmed its ability to serve as a stable ground-based missile launch platform
- A live demonstration distinguishes it from concept vehicles that never fired
- Collaboration with Lockheed Martin strengthens RCR’s credibility in defense manufacturing
From NASCAR track to battlefield: why this matters
RCR’s shift into defense manufacturing taps into the same manufacturing, machining, and engineering capabilities that drove its NASCAR success. According to company president Mike Verlander, these skills have made RCR a trusted integrator in defense ground mobility solutions. This move reflects a broader pattern of motorsport technology influencing military applications. Daytona Racing Digest + 2
"Using the same manufacturing, machining, and engineering capabilities that drive our race teams and engine company, RCR Enterprises is becoming a trusted integrator in the defense space, particularly in ground mobility, as proven by our recent successful Lockheed Martin JQL VL demonstrations."
Proven in live missile test
Prior to its expo debut, the Mothership took part in a Lockheed Martin Joint Air-to-Ground Missile Quad Launcher Vertical Launch demonstration. The test confirmed the vehicle’s ability to provide a stable base for a 90-degree missile launch, setting it apart from untested defense prototypes. This operational validation adds weight to its potential field use. 
A decade-long shift from racing to defense
Since 2014, RCR has expanded from motorsport into defense and aerospace manufacturing, a transition accelerated by NASCAR’s 2022 Next Gen car changes. The reduced need for in-house chassis building freed resources for developing military-grade platforms. The Mothership represents a milestone in this ongoing diversification strategy.

Carahsoft and Technology Partners Showcase Mission-Focused Solutions at Modern Day Marine Event, April 28–30, 2026, in Washington, D.C.
Carahsoft
Business Insider

RESTON, Va., April 02, 2026 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Carahsoft Technology Corp., The Trusted Government IT Solutions Provider®, will be joined by more than 20 of its technology partners at Modern Day Marine 2026, the premier military equipment, systems, services and technology exposition dedicated exclusively to the Marine Corps community, taking place April 28–30 in Washington, D.C. Co-hosted by the Marine Corps League and the Marine Corps Association, the exposition will convene Marines, DoD civilians, association partners, Federal Government personnel and authorized industry representatives to explore emerging technologies, acquisition strategies and operational priorities shaping the future of the Marine Corps.
LEARN:
This year’s event will feature more than 350 exhibitors displaying the latest warfighting innovations and technology, as well as presentations from influential Marines and DOW personnel, demonstrations and various other sessions for attendees to learn from thought and industry leaders about the future of the U.S. Marines.
Modern Day Marine 2026 will offer:
* Main Briefing Center: Executive-level sessions where senior defense leaders share updates on policies, priorities and mission challenges impacting the Marine Corps.
* Warfighting Pavilion: Demonstrations of combat development, experimentation and capability integration shaping modern Marine Corps operations.
* Marine Zone: Resources focused on training, education, talent management and programs that support Marine career growth and force readiness.
* Drone Zone: Exhibits highlighting advancements in unmanned aerial systems and robotics supporting evolving battlefield tactics and mission execution.
* Acquisitions Pavilion: Briefings from Marine Corps acquisition leaders outlining procurement priorities and upcoming capability initiatives.
* OBJ1 Wargaming: Interactive computer-based and tabletop wargaming sessions exploring operational scenarios, tactics and strategic concepts.
ATTEND:
Tuesday-Thursday, April 28-30, 2026
Walter E Washington Convention Center
801 Allen Y. Lew Place NW
Washington, DC 20001
NETWORK WITH CARAHSOFT:
Carahsoft and more than 20 of its partners will showcase Customer Experience and Engagement, MultiCloud and other mission-focused solutions at Modern Day Marine 2026. Attendees are invited to visit the Carahsoft Team in booth #1144 for live partner demonstrations and connect with additional Carahsoft partners exhibiting throughout the show floor.
Carahsoft Booth Demo
Schedule:
Tuesday April 28
Garland
Dragos
Wednesday April 29
Nutanix
Project Hosts
Thursday April 30
Trout Software
Trellix
Additional Carahsoft partners exhibiting at Modern Day Marine
Appian (#2360)
Corelight (#2848)
Govini (#719)
Shift5 (#1107)
Infoblox (#1157)
Skydio (#613)
View the entire floor plan here.
Carahsoft will meet with partners and attendees throughout the event. Schedule a meeting with the Carahsoft Team here.
JOIN TODAY!
For more information and to register for the event, click here. To learn more about Carahsoft’s involvement in the event, visit Carahsoft’s Modern Day Marine Events Page, or contact alexander.keiningham@carahsoft.com.
About Carahsoft 
Carahsoft Technology Corp. is The Trusted Government IT Solutions Provider, supporting Public Sector organizations across Federal, State and Local Government agencies and Education and Healthcare markets. As the Master Government Aggregator®?for our vendor partners, we deliver?solutions?for Cybersecurity, MultiCloud, DevSecOps, Artificial Intelligence, Customer Experience and Engagement, Open Source and more. Working with resellers, systems integrators and consultants, our sales and marketing teams provide industry leading IT products, services and training through hundreds of contract vehicles. Visit us at?www.carahsoft.com. 

Cubic to Showcase Edge Compute and Digital Intelligence Advancing Marine Corps Operations at Modern Day Marine 2026
Cubic Defense
USA Today

This page contains press release content distributed by XPR Media. Members of the editorial and news staff of the USA TODAY Network were not involved in the creation of this content.
Delivering real-time data access and shared operational awareness at the tactical edge
SAN DIEGO, CA / ACCESS Newswire / April 14, 2026 / Cubic Defense, a recognized industry leader in providing edge compute and networking and digital intelligence, will feature its latest Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Cyber, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C5ISR) capabilities at Modern Day Marine, April 28-30, 2026, at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington, D.C.
Aligned with this year’s theme, “From American Shores: 250 Years of Defending Forward,” Cubic will demonstrate how its technologies enable the U.S. Marine Corps to operate effectively across distributed and contested environments.
“By integrating edge compute with advanced networking and digital intelligence, we provide Marines with a resilient, unified operational picture that enhances coordination and situational awareness across the battlespace,” said Anthony Verna, Senior Vice President and General Manager, DTECH Mission Solutions, Cubic Defense. “Our technologies ensure they can access and act on mission-critical data wherever they operate.”
“Cubic enables faster, more informed decisions at the tactical edge, supporting distributed operations in complex, contested environments,” said Samuel Stollar, Vice President and General Manager, Cubic Digital Intelligence. “We look forward to engaging with the Marine Corps and joint force leaders at Modern Day Marine.”
Visit Cubic at booth #1807 to see demonstrations, including:
DTECH Edge Compute and Networking Platforms – Demonstrates high-speed computing and resilient networking at the tactical edge, enabling real-time data access to support maritime domain awareness, sea control and sea denial and forward command and control. These capabilities align with Expeditionary Advanced Base Operations (EABO) and Distributed Maritime Operations (DMO), improving maneuverability, reducing signature and sustaining operations in contested environments.
Digital Intelligence – Demonstrates TAKTICS and AutoSync Maps to deliver and maintain shared operational maps across users and units, enabling seamless access to authoritative geospatial data without manual updates. Integrations with HiPER LOOK, KiOSK and HiPER DRIVE extend a single operational picture across enterprise and tactical environments, including disconnected and forward-deployed users, reducing data silos and ensuring consistent, mission-ready intelligence.
To learn more about Cubic products and services, visit www.cubic.com.
About Cubic
Cubic creates and delivers technology solutions in transportation that make people’s lives easier by simplifying their daily journeys, and defense capabilities that help promote mission success and safety for those who serve their nation. Led by our talented teams around the world, Cubic is driven to solve global challenges through innovation and service to our customers and partners.
Part of Cubic’s portfolio of businesses, Cubic Defense provides networked Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Cyber, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C5ISR) solutions and is a leading provider of live, virtual, constructive and game-based training solutions for both U.S. and Allied Forces. These mission-inspired capabilities enable assured multi-domain access; converged digital intelligence; and superior readiness for defense, intelligence, security and commercial missions. For more information, visit www.cubic.com.
Media Contacts:
Geri MacDonald?
Cubic Defense?
geri.macdonald@cubic.com
Touchdown PR for Cubic Defense
Cubicdefense@touchdownpr.com
SOURCE: Cubic Defense
View the original press release on ACCESS Newswire
Information contained on this page is provided by an independent third-party content provider. XPRMedia and this Site make no warranties or representations in connection therewith. If you are affiliated with this page and would like it removed please contact pressreleases@xpr.media

RIPSAW M1 military robot vehicle hits 53 mph, scouts terrain and launches munitions
Aamir Khollam
Interesting Engineering

The U.S. Marine Corps is reshaping how it fights along coastlines. Smaller units, faster movement, and fewer troops exposed to danger now define that shift. Textron Systems has stepped into that evolution with a new robotic platform designed to move ahead of Marines, not with them.
At the 2026 Modern Day Marine exposition, Textron Systems Corporation unveiled the RIPSAW M1 uncrewed ground vehicle. The system aims to extend reach, gather intelligence, and carry out strike roles without putting personnel at risk.
Robotic force multiplier
The RIPSAW M1 builds on Textron’s Modular Open Systems Approach. That design allows rapid changes in mission payloads. The vehicle can shift from reconnaissance to counter-drone roles without structural redesign.
Textron positions the M1 as a support asset for the Marine Corps’ Advanced Reconnaissance Vehicle and Amphibious Combat Vehicle. The goal is simple: increase combat reach while reducing exposure.
“The M1 technology demonstrator shows the art of the possible for how UGVs can support the Marine Corps’ missions,” said Vice President of Programs, Sara Willett. “Along with Howe & Howe, we took our experience in autonomous robotic systems across land, air and sea – the same domains the Marine Corps’ missions live – to develop this system that demonstrates our ability to scale the SWAP up or down, all while maintaining the common robotic core that enables our UGVs to provide exceptional transportability and battlefield agility.”
The platform supports missions such as reconnaissance, surveillance, and target acquisition. It can also engage counter-drone threats and launch loitering munitions. That flexibility reflects a broader Pentagon push toward robotic teaming.
Built for contested terrain
The M1 focuses on speed and maneuverability rather than heavy armor. It reaches speeds up to 53 mph and navigates tight spaces with a 7.5-foot turning radius. Its compact size supports rapid deployment in urban and coastal zones.
The vehicle carries up to 2,000 pounds of payload. That capacity supports sensors, electronic warfare tools, or logistics loads. Marines can reconfigure the platform based on mission needs.
Textron designed the system for littoral operations, where terrain shifts between land and water. The vehicle can ford water up to 48 inches deep and maintain mobility across rough surfaces.
Silent, modular warfare
One of the M1’s defining features is its silent electric range. It can travel up to 30 miles without engine noise. That capability reduces detection risk during reconnaissance or forward positioning.
The platform reflects a wider shift in U.S. military strategy. Distributed operations demand systems that move fast, adapt quickly, and operate without constant human control.
Textron’s approach centers on scalability. The M1 is the first in a planned family of vehicles. Each variant will share a common robotic core while adapting to different missions.
As the Marine Corps pushes toward Force Design 2030, systems like the RIPSAW M1 could redefine how units operate in contested environments. Instead of leading from the front, Marines may increasingly rely on machines to take the first step.

This Is No Fast and Furious Ripsaw, It Was Built to Be a Marine
Daniel Patrascu
Autoevolution

American defense contractor Textron presented another uncrewed variant of the Ripsaw UGV, the M1 was made for the Marines.
To the general public, the name Ripsaw is probably best-known for being slapped on one of the many vehicles that starred over the years in the ‘Fast and Furious’ movies. More specifically, when hearing about it people think about the 2011 Howe & Howe Ripsaw that starred in ‘The Fate of the Furious’, but also the ‘G.I. Joe’ movies. Technically speaking, though, the name is military in nature, and it’s now used to describe uncrewed ground vehicles (UGV) as well.
Howe & Howe is a subsidiary of defense contractor Textron, and the two presented, during the 2026 Modern Day Marine exposition that took place in Washington, DC, at the end of last month, the latest Ripsaw incarnation, the M1 technology demonstrator.
Smaller than the Ripsaw M3 designed for the U.S. Army’s Robotic Combat Vehicle (RCV) and presented at the end of 2024, and propped on wheels instead of tracks, the M1 is supposed to serve the needs of the U.S. Marine Corps (USMC) in terms of littoral mobility and uncrewed teaming operations.
The ground drone has been imagined as a platform capable of conducting hard kill counter-unmanned aircraft systems missions, but also reconnaissance, surveillance and target acquisition. It can be used as a launch platform for loitering munitions, or even sacrificed to protect heavier and more expensive, ground vehicles.
Textron did not reveal the exact specs of the design, but there is talk of it being capable of reaching top speeds of up to 53 mph (85 kph) using an electric powertrain that also gives it all-wheel drive capabilities.
The batteries on this thing should last for as many as 30 miles (48 km), and it can carry 2,000 pounds (almost 1,000 kg) of cargo. It’s also modular and open systems, being adaptable to upcoming technologies and roles.
Sara Willett, Textron Vice President of Programs, said that the technology demonstrator shows “the art of the possible for how UGVs can support the Marine Corps’ missions,” and that it has been developed using the company’s experience in autonomous robotic systems across land, air, and sea – meaning the exact mediums in which the Marines usually operate.
Textron says the vehicle presented in DC is the first in an entire line of products that will be developed to serve as sidekicks to the USMC’s Advanced Reconnaissance Vehicle (ARV) and Amphibious Combat Vehicle (ACV).
Those are the official replacements for the AAV7A1 Assault Amphibious Vehicle and LAV-25 Light Armored Vehicle. They are supposed to become operational early next decade, and that gives us a sense of when we could expect the M1 to begin its military service as well.
We will keep an eye on the M1, but also the larger autonomous Ripsaw family, and report back once we learn of developments.

Halo_Shield Is Not a New Version of the Hit Video Game, But a New Drone Defense Concept
Daniel Patrascu
Autoevolution

American defense contractor AeroVironment introduced a new anti-drone defense concept called Halo_Shield, could be the next great thing in this field.
If you Google ‘Halo shield’, the first results it will return will probably be related to the iconic SF video game (or the larger media franchise) called Halo. More specifically, you’ll be treated to images of rechargeable energy fields wrapped around the characters’ armor to absorb damage. This story is not about that.
Here, we’ll have a quick look at something called Halo_Shield, spelled exactly like that. It’s a term cooked up in the laboratories of American defense contractor AeroVironment, and it’s meant to represent a “modular, distributed, and cost-effective counter-unmanned aircraft system.”
I’ll be honest with you, anti-drone systems I’ve seen before, and I wasn’t really expecting a revolution in this field. But what Halo_Shield brings to the table is a concept that may very well revolutionize efforts to fight off those pesky drones.
You see, this system takes a layered approach to predict, detect, track, identify, and defeat airborne threats, be them drones from Groups 1 to 5, or coordinated drone swarms, or even subsonic cruise missiles.
Basically, the concept incorporates things AeroVironment likes to call tiles: a specialized combination of sensors, effectors, and command-and-control capabilities that can work either independently or with one another to ensure the security of critical sites.
For instance, the company imagines a system that brings together things like the Locust laser weapons system, the Switchblade loitering munitions, or the Titan 4 and Titan MS RF anti-drone weapons.
Depending on needs, each of these systems can work independently, doing what they do best in their respective field, but thanks to the AV_Halo software platform that ties them all together, they can join forces to become real game changers. When together, the Halo_Shield runs the C2 software that automates detection, classification, and effector response.
All the above technologies are plug-and-play, modular, and scalable, and they can be deployed as fly-away kits. Once up and running, they can deliver an autonomous kill chain that takes into account a number of preset parameters.
“That modularity lets operators scale, adapt, and reconfigure in real time as threats evolve, without redesigning the system or retraining the force. It’s how you move from static point defense to a living, mission-tailored shield,” the company says.
AeroVironment has names for each of these tiles. It calls them Celestial, Sentinel, Terrestrial, and Nautical, and those words kind of speak to their nature. Full details on each of them, however, will be announced at a later date.
AeroVironment presented the Halo_Shield concept during the Modern Day Marine event that took place this week at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington, D.C. More importantly than that, it said it has already deployed the system at select critical sites, but does not reveal what those are.

This Chopped, Autonomous Polaris Ranger Is Designed to Evacuate Wounded Soldiers and Civilians Alike
Jonathon Klein
Ride Apart

Evacuations can be hectic. They can also be dangerous for those driving the equipment needed, which is why Polaris and defense group, Forterra, have designed the CASEVAC, an autonomous side-by-side built to get wounded soldiers and civilians out in a hurry.
One of the toughest missions within the world's military apparatus is that of evacuations. Not only getting supplies in and out, but getting people, both wounded and not, in and out. It's dangerous work, including for those manning the vehicles designed to do the job. But that's exactly the sort of thing this autonomous Polaris Ranger XD side-by-side was built to do.
Built in conjunction with Polaris Defense, the company's military arm, and Forterra, an autonomous vehicle developer out of West Valley, Utah, just over the mountains from my own home, the design brief was simple: build an autonomous CASEVAC (casualty evacuation) vehicle that could conquer terrain. 
The duo landed on the Polaris Ranger XD, the stouter cousin to the standard Ranger, with a better payload and towing capacities, and integrated systems that would work for the intended mission. What's wild is that the whole thing looks like an old-school lead sled, i.e., the roof's been chopped, and all you notice are the half doors that likely hold the access points to the vehicle's internal systems. 
Neat.
According to Forterra, the vehicle is called the Mesa, and was "Built on a factory modified Polaris Ranger XD 1500 platform, the MESA integrates Forterra’s AutoDrive and Vektor mission modules into a scalable system that delivers mobility, compute, communications and sensing at the edge and Polaris’ robust vehicle platform." 
The resulting vehicle has a payload capacity of 2,000 pounds and a flat deck, which offers military operations a host of possibilities on the battlefield, including the aforementioned CASEVAC operations, logistics support, heavy load carrying, and more. Furthermore, given it's autonomous, you don't need a driver, which is one fewer person to potentially be injured, and one fewer person to worry about.
"Our MESA vehicle brings together the core elements of autonomous mission execution and OEM manufacturing into a single, deployable platform," said Pat Acox, Vice President of Defense Growth at Forterra, adding, "Because MESA is built in direct partnership with Polaris, every vehicle comes off the same market-leading production line that delivers Polaris platforms globally, with all modifications executed alongside the OEM. This results in a more robust, fully integrated platform without aftermarket changes to the base vehicle chassis."
To that end, due to the extensive aftermarket and parts support for the Polaris Ranger platform, it makes field fixes all the easier. You're not hunting around for a part no one has ever heard of or can't make or fix easily when things go sideways or something gets broken during a mission. It's basic stuff. 
The Mesa debuted only this week at the Modern Day Marine expo, and was shown off after a number of branches of the U.S. Military put out a call for "last-mile" CASEVAC options and unmanned ground vehicles. This is basically a proof of concept for both Polaris and Forterra, though both already have extensive government contracts within the space. 

This Autonomous ATV Has Twin Missile Launchers And a Rad Name
Jonathon Klein
Ride Apart

The world's battlefields are changing rapidly. With the advent of autonomy, along with electrification and drone warfare, the world's modern militaries need new strategies and tools to fight today and tomorrow's conflicts, as well as protect those at home.
Plus, military equipment tends to be pretty damn rad from an engineering perspective. 
Case in point, the Ripsaw M1 UGV, which is an amphibious, all-terrain, all-electric, autonomous ATV that comes with twin missile barrages. Basically, it's a mini electric tank designed to make a path through whatever the Marines want to, along with fight drones, be a pack mule, and oh so much more. 
But in truth, it's basically just an all-electric ATV ala the Can-Am Outlander, but with the capability of charting its own path or helping shoot down air-based targets, all while keeping its operators safe from harm. Interestingly, it was built by the same company that recently sold Arctic Cat: Textron Systems.
Textron has long been a defense contractor, as it's built UTVs, ATVs, and even snowmobiles for the U.S. government. It also builds drones, advanced robotics, and does fighter jet training operations to help school, and keep schooled, the next generation of fighter pilots. The company does more than that, too, though if I told you what, I'd probably have to kill you. 
JOKING. 
What isn't a threat in terms of you knowing about it is the aforementioned Ripsaw M1 UGV, which Textron Systems debuted at the Modern Day Marine expo. According to Textron's release, "The M1 technology demonstrator is the next iteration in the company’s Modular Open Systems Approach (MOSA)-designed UGVs, demonstrating the capacity and capability to scale our family of UGVs. The technology demonstrator is the first variant in the M1 line of vehicles, designed as a robotic force multiplier for the Advanced Reconnaissance Vehicle (ARV) and Amphibious Combat Vehicle (ACV) to support Force Design 2030."
Furthermore, " The UGV can support target missions including hard kill counter-unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) and reconnaissance, surveillance and target acquisition (RSTA). It can also serve as a loitering munition launch platform. The vehicle is envisioned to extend the reach and lethality of the Marines’ existing systems to keep personnel out of harm’s way and protect heavier, and more expensive, ground vehicles."
As for specs, it has a top speed of 43 mph, a payload capacity of 2,000 pounds, and its mission status can be swapped fairly quickly to adapt to whatever the Marines or Army needs from it, including drone defense, exfil operations, or defense. The last one is interesting, as the loitering munition launch platform phrase is why it has twin Textron "Damocles" launch stations, though you can put others on it, too. 
Right now, Textron Systems is pitching it to the federal government, so we'll have to wait and see if it'll ever see service. But if that does fall through, I've got a few ideas of how this could help me with my HOA...
KIDDING. Not really. 

Pentagon to stand up new sub-unified command for autonomous drone warfare
Kade Winslow
Morning Overview

The Department of Defense is moving to create a dedicated sub-unified command for autonomous drone warfare, a step that would give the U.S. military its first permanent headquarters focused on fielding and coordinating AI-driven unmanned systems across every branch of service. The plan surfaced during a House Armed Services Committee hearing in late May 2026 on the Pentagon’s fiscal year 2027 budget request, where Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Dan Caine testified before the full panel.
If formalized, the command would represent the most significant organizational shift around drone technology since the military began flying armed Predators over Afghanistan more than two decades ago. It comes as cheap, expendable drones have reshaped ground combat in Ukraine, enabled Iranian-backed proxy strikes across the Middle East, and pushed China to invest heavily in autonomous swarm technology for a potential conflict over Taiwan.
What the hearing confirmed
The committee’s published docket lists Hegseth and Caine as witnesses and places unmanned systems and emerging technologies squarely within the scope of their testimony. During the session, the concept of standing up a sub-unified command for autonomous drone operations was discussed as part of a broader reorganization effort, though a full public transcript with verbatim language has not yet been released through the committee’s official channels.
The organizational groundwork has been building for more than a year. In late 2024, then-Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin signed a counter-unmanned-systems strategy that called for new joint offices and integration groups to adapt military doctrine to a battlefield increasingly dominated by small, inexpensive drones. That document directed every service to fold counter-UAS planning into its core operations and acknowledged that existing structures were too fragmented to keep pace.
The Pentagon followed up by establishing Joint Interagency Task Force 401 (JIATF 401), charged with delivering affordable counter-small-drone capabilities to frontline units. JIATF 401 focuses on the defensive problem: how to detect, track, and destroy a $500 quadcopter without firing a $2 million interceptor missile. Its creation signaled a willingness to carve out specialized entities when traditional service bureaucracies proved too slow for fast-evolving threats.
The proposed sub-unified command would sit above these efforts, coordinating offensive autonomous operations across combatant commands, standardizing tactics, and enforcing interoperability among the services’ rapidly growing drone fleets. That layered approach mirrors how the military organized around previous new domains. U.S. Cyber Command, for example, started as a sub-unified command under U.S. Strategic Command in 2009 before being elevated to a full combatant command in 2018. Space followed a similar arc.
Key questions still unanswered
Several critical details remain unresolved. No specific budget line for the new command has appeared in publicly available FY27 materials, and without a released transcript or written testimony, the exact scope of its mission, its chain of authority, and its relationship to JIATF 401 are open questions.
Chief among them is which combatant command would serve as the parent organization. Sub-unified commands operate under a larger headquarters, and the choice matters. Nesting the new body under U.S. Strategic Command or U.S. Special Operations Command would give it a global, cross-regional mandate. Placing it under a geographic combatant command like U.S. Indo-Pacific Command would orient it toward a specific theater and a specific adversary. No updated Unified Command Plan reflecting the change has been published.
On Capitol Hill, the political landscape is only partly visible. Democratic members of the committee have pressed for tighter oversight of major modernization spending and emerging-technology programs, but no lawmaker has publicly endorsed or opposed the sub-unified command by name. Whether bipartisan support materializes will likely depend on how the Pentagon frames costs, addresses mission overlap with existing organizations, and presents safeguards on autonomous weapons decision-making.
The timeline is another unknown. Standing up a sub-unified command requires a formal establishment order, staffing plans, doctrinal updates, and coordination across every service. Cyber Command’s journey from concept to full operational capability took nearly a decade. Whether the Pentagon envisions a rapid standup driven by urgent battlefield lessons from Ukraine and the Red Sea, or a phased consolidation of existing drone units, has not been specified.
Why the Pentagon is reorganizing now
The push is rooted in what military planners have watched unfold since 2022. In Ukraine, first-person-view drones costing a few hundred dollars, according to research by the Royal United Services Institute, have destroyed armored vehicles worth millions, forced both sides to dig elaborate trench networks, and made open-ground maneuver nearly suicidal without electronic-warfare cover. Houthi forces in Yemen have used Iranian-designed drones and cruise missiles to threaten commercial shipping in the Red Sea, stretching U.S. Navy air-defense inventories thin. And China’s People’s Liberation Army has been testing networked drone swarms in exercises that simulate saturation attacks on naval task forces.
Each of these cases exposed the same structural gap: the U.S. military develops drones across dozens of programs in every service, but no single headquarters is responsible for weaving them into a coherent operational concept. The Army fields its own reconnaissance and attack drones. The Navy is experimenting with unmanned surface vessels and submarine-launched systems. The Air Force is building autonomous “collaborative combat aircraft” designed to fly alongside manned fighters. Without a coordinating command, these programs risk producing incompatible systems, duplicating effort, and leaving seams that adversaries can exploit.
A sub-unified command would, in theory, close that gap by centralizing doctrine, training standards, and operational integration for autonomous systems. It would give combatant commanders a single point of contact when they need drone capabilities for a mission, rather than forcing them to negotiate separately with each service. And it would create a dedicated advocate inside the Pentagon’s budget process, competing for resources the way Cyber Command and Space Command now do.
What it means for industry, allies, and oversight
For defense contractors and the growing ecosystem of AI and robotics startups working with the Pentagon, a dedicated command could accelerate procurement cycles and create clearer requirements. Companies building autonomous navigation software, swarm-coordination algorithms, or low-cost airframe designs would have a defined customer with authority to set standards and push programs through testing.
Allied militaries are watching closely. NATO members, Australia, and partners across the Indo-Pacific are grappling with the same questions about how to integrate autonomous systems into combined operations. A U.S. sub-unified command could become the natural hub for multinational drone interoperability, much as Cyber Command has become a coordination point for allied cyber operations. Conversely, if the command’s authorities and doctrine develop in isolation, it could complicate coalition warfare at a moment when interoperability matters more than ever.
The oversight dimension is perhaps the most consequential. Autonomous weapons raise questions that no previous command structure has had to answer at scale: How much decision-making authority can be delegated to a machine? What testing regime is sufficient to trust an algorithm in a contested environment? Who is accountable when an autonomous system makes a lethal error? The Pentagon’s existing policy, rooted in a 2023 update to DoD Directive 3000.09, requires that autonomous and semi-autonomous weapons be designed to allow “appropriate levels of human judgment.” A new command would need to operationalize that language into concrete rules of engagement, and Congress will almost certainly demand a role in shaping them.
Until the Pentagon releases formal directives, budget justification documents, or a transcript of the May 2026 testimony, the full architecture of the proposed command remains a work in progress. What is already clear is the direction of travel: the U.S. military is building permanent institutional infrastructure around autonomous warfare, moving beyond ad hoc task forces and strategy papers toward a command that will own the mission. How that command is designed, funded, and constrained will shape not just American military power but the global norms around autonomous weapons for years to come.

The Marine Corps is overhauling its Recon training
Nicholas Slayton, Jeff Schogol
Task & Purpose

Recon Marine hopefuls will now go through two new programs, the Ground Reconnaissance Course and the Amphibious Reconnaissance Course.
The Marine Corps is rebooting how it trains Reconnaissance Marines, with an overhaul of the program’s notoriously tough training curriculum.
Marines who wish to serve as part of a scout or reconnaissance team will no longer go to a 12-week Basic Recon Course, instead will need to complete two new courses: the Ground Reconnaissance Course and the Amphibious Reconnaissance Course. The first now serves as the initial part of the training curriculum, and its first class reported on Monday, April 27. 
The new initial course replacing it will cover land navigation, water survival, surveillance and supporting arms, among other topics, with lectures and hands-on training. According to Marine Corps Training Command, the new course “formalizes scout training” to provide enhanced capabilities for Light Armored Reconnaissance and infantry battalions. 
Marine officials said more information on the two new schools, like the length of each course, would be released next week.
The Marine Corps has long had a shortage of Reconnaissance Marines because the training is so difficult, said retired Marine Lt. Col. Worth Parker, a former ground reconnaissance and special operations officer. The swimming and other water-related activities in particular, he said, trip up many candidates.
“I see nothing but goodness as far as providing a more capable, competent scouting capability at the infantry battalion as well as offering a potential source of ‘late bloomers’ who become more capable of getting over the traditional hurdles to success [in the training], those predominantly being aquatic skills,” Parker said.
Additionally, the recon training curriculum is ditching Marine Combat Training as a prerequisite. Instead, Marines must now go through the Infantry Rifleman Course before trying out for Recon. According to the command’s news release, this shift will reduce wait times for training and better prepare them for the Marine Reconnaissance training program. 
The Amphibious Reconnaissance Course is meant to build on both of the previous courses. It will, as the name suggests, center around amphibious missions, including training in aquatic areas, as well as the use of sensors and communications tools in those environments. Marines who complete that course will get the 0321 Reconnaissance Marine military occupation specialty. 
Previously, the Basic Recon Course put Marines through both land and amphibious recon procedures, training them on individual operations as well as joint missions as a team. Training included land navigation as well as operations in the open ocean. On April 3, 37 Marines, including Medal of Honor recipient Sgt. Dakota Meyer, were among the final to finish the Basic Reconnaissance Course before the curriculum overhaul, according to Sgt. Maj. of the Marine Corps Carlos Ruiz. 
After graduating from the two initial schools, Reconnaissance Marines will move on to the Marine Corps Combatant Diver school, the Army’s Basic Airborne Course school, freefall parachute training, and Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape school, Parker told Task & Purpose.

US Marine Corps replaces Basic Reconnaissance Course with expanded training
J.D. Simkins
Defense News

The Marine Corps is updating its Marine Reconnaissance training curriculum through the launch of a new Ground Reconnaissance Course, according to Training and Education Command.
As the new initial course in the recon training pipeline, GRC is one of two programs, alongside the Amphibious Reconnaissance Course, replacing the service’s Basic Reconnaissance Course.
The new curriculum, which was launched April 27 at the Camp Pendleton-based Reconnaissance Training Company, was developed following analysis of how recon training can best support the service’s Force Design initiatives.
The Reconnaissance Training Company, or RTC, trains Marines who will fight as part of scout or reconnaissance teams within the Corps’ Ground Combat Element of the Marine Air-Ground Task Force.
“Marine Reconnaissance training will have the same rigor it’s long been famous for,” Maj. Gen. Michael A. Brooks, commanding general of Training Command, said in a May 1 release. “These changes are incredibly valuable, shaping a force capable of providing critical intelligence in dynamic and complex environments and ensuring our Marines remain the most effective on the battlefield.”
The curriculum updates, meanwhile, are also designed to enhance students’ infantry skills by way of replacing Marine Combat Training for non-infantry Marines with the Infantry Rifleman Course.
“This change reduces wait times and offers early exposure to human performance support, ensuring a smoother progression through infantry, aquatic and physical training to better prepare Marines for the demands of reconnaissance training,” the release stated.
Students attending the Ground Reconnaissance Course will undertake a combination of lecture and practical application training in land navigation, water survival, communications, surveillance, patrolling and supporting arms.
The Amphibious Reconnaissance Course, meanwhile, is designed to supplement the foundational training provided during the Infantry Rifleman Course and GRC.
The ARC focuses on aquatic operations, amphibious mission planning and use of unique communications and sensor equipment, among other areas.
Marines who finish the ARC will be given the military occupational specialty of Reconnaissance Marine, or 0321.
The replacement of the Basic Reconnaissance Course was hinted at in early April by Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps Carlos A. Ruiz, who noted in a Facebook post that the April 3 graduating class would be one of the last before the service transitioned to courses more aligned with the 2030 Force Design objectives.
That particular graduating class included Sgt. Dakota Meyer, who was presented the Medal of Honor in 2011 by President Barack Obama for actions in Afghanistan.
Meyer, 37, reenlisted in the Marine Corps Reserve in April 2025 because he believed he “had more to give,” he stated previously.

US Marine Corps, Navy join forces to combat insufficient amphibious fleet size
Cristina Stassis
Defense News

The U.S. Marine Corps and Navy are collaborating to boost the nation’s current inadequate amphibious fleet size, according to the top-ranked U.S. Marine Corps officer.
Marine Corps Commandant Gen. Eric Smith said at the 2026 Sea-Air-Space Conference during a Tuesday keynote that the two services are working together with a “unified sense of purpose” to increase the size and availability of the U.S. amphibious fleet through three methods.
“We’re in complete agreement that our current inventory of 31 amphibious ships is not sufficient to meet our new presence that our combatant commanders are requesting and requiring,” Smith said during his speech.
As of April 2026, there are four amphibious ships deployed across North America, the Caribbean and the Pacific, according to Navy data. Currently, the amphibious assault ship USS Tripoli is in the Arabian Sea in support of the U.S. blockade of the Strait of Hormuz, while the USS Boxer has deployed to the Middle East from the Pacific.
The Tripoli Amphibious Ready Group was sent to the Middle East in mid-March as reinforcements for the war in Iran.
In 2025, amphibious ships’ readiness rate crucial to Marine missions dropped to 41% amid increased U.S. operations in Latin America and the Caribbean to fight drug cartels. The lack of ships readily available caused a five-month delay in Marine Expeditionary Unit deployments last year.
During his speech, Smith said that the Navy and Marine Corps are “optimizing maintenance schedules” and fourth-generation runs to get more out of the ships they already have. Secondly, the two services will invest in service life extensions for the “best of breed” ships that are in the best mechanical and physical shape.
Lastly, Smith said that they are moving forward with the procurement of new and more capable ships with the help of Congress.
The commandant noted that they are seeking “increased, sustained and predictable investments” in the amphibious shipping industry to achieve this expansion and heightened availability of the fleet.
Smith also noted that the fiscal year 2027 budget proposed by President Donald Trump was a considerable “down payment” for this generational effort to build up the amphibious fleet, but it’s just a start.
“To build the amphibious fleet that our nation needs and deserves will require continued commitment of leaders in uniform and the support of leaders in our government,” Smith noted.
Smith said that they can “never walk away from” bolstering the traditional amphibious capabilities, but they are also focusing on littoral mobility — the ability for Navy and Marine forces to move and operate to and from shore.
Littorals encompass most of the Pacific, and the commandant referred to the Indo-Pacific as the world’s most challenging environment due to its scale.
In December 2025, the Navy and Marine Corps selected the Dutch shipbuilder Damen LST-100 design as their new medium landing ship, which Smith highlighted in his speech as having “game changing capability” for allowing the forces to maneuver and self-sustain in a resilient and reliable manner.

UAS is ‘the new’ IED: Hung Cao urges industry to innovate faster against modern drone threats
Brandi Vincent
Defense Scoop

Cao made his first high-profile public address since he was elevated to acting SECNAV following a major leadership shakeup and ouster last week.
The Navy’s new acting secretary, Hung Cao, urged industry officials to speed up the delivery of high-quality counter-drone systems and other AI-enabled military assets to protect and better equip sailors and Marines who are deployed overseas. 
“What you’re producing right now is going to save the lives of America’s sons and daughters. My son, who’s going to be commissioned as a second lieutenant in about 24 days. So, that’s why I do what I’m doing, because I’m not going to have my son go to war the way I did when we were invading Iraq. We didn’t have the right equipment,” Cao said Tuesday at the Modern Day Marine conference. “That’s why I’m here today — to tell industry we need to move forward. The time is now. This is the time for us to do generational changes for our military.” 
This keynote marked Cao’s first high-profile public address since he was appointed to lead the sea service on April 22, after the swift and surprising removal of John Phelan by Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth and President Donald Trump. 
“My life changed a little bit in the last six days,” the new acting SECNAV told the audience. He said he was prepared to take over, though, “because in combat, you lose people, and the fight goes on.”
Cao was born in Vietnam, but fled that wartorn country with his family as a young child in a wave of refugees. 
The retired Navy captain spent much of his long military career as a special operations officer who specialized in explosive ordnance disposal and deep-sea diving. 
Cao deployed to Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia and elsewhere. He is also known for his contributions on the dive team that recovered John F. Kennedy Jr’s remains after his plane crashed in 1999.
During his time as the Navy’s top civilian leader, Cao said he wants to see more competition among industry players and new companies entering the mix to inject innovation and capacity into key priority areas within the U.S. military arsenal, like munitions, unmanned aerial and maritime systems, and AI.
“We need AI to get faster, better, smarter — whether it’s in ship repair, or ship maintenance, or just help us make that decision. I mean, you’ve got all these missiles, for example, on a ship. How do you know which [one is best to use]? Sometimes you’ll need that AI in order to make that better decision in that quick, quick reaction, because you only have a few seconds — especially when you’re talking about a lot of the drones and the cruise missiles that are coming in at the same time,” Cao noted.
Drawing on his combat deployments in the Middle East in the early 2000s, when improvised explosive devices and roadside bombs represented the deadliest threat to U.S. forces, Cao said counter-UAS is now “the new” counter-IED.
“I’ve taken care of the IEDs on the battleground, as an EOD technician. And this is their IED. It’s flying, it’s doing all sorts of stuff. It can drop chemical, biological weapons if they want it to. And this is what our next-generation fight is going to be,” Cao said. “So, we need to bring the fight to the enemy with our own drones and be able to master the ability to counter these drones [with] everything we need in order to make the Marine unit on the ground safe.”
His tenure comes as the Navy is armed with new “Fighting Instructions” to modernize its warfighting approach to meet the demands of the modern era. The service is hustling to enable a hybrid, “Golden Fleet” that integrates AI and robotic platforms with traditional manned ships to solve specific, complex operational problems.
“The Golden fleet is not just about ships — it’s the whole concept of reforming acquisitions,” Cao said.
He encouraged industry insiders to help build out a “high-low mix” of platforms for the Navy, including frigates, destroyers, larger combatants, drones, next?generation aircraft and connectors, and other maritime assets.
Cao previously served as the undersecretary of the Navy. Before that, he ran for federal office on the Republican ticket in Virginia in 2022 and 2024. He lost both races.
Re-emphasizing comments he made during his time on the campaign trail, Cao also told the audience Tuesday that he doesn’t “need cross-dressers in the military.”
“I need alpha males and alpha females that are going to rip out their guts and eat them and ask for seconds. Those are men and women that are going to win wars — and that’s what we need. I don’t need leaf eaters, okay. If you’re a leaf eater, go somewhere else. We need meat eaters,” he said. “Look, we’re at war right now. I’m a war secretary. I’m a secretary during a time of war. I’ve been there. I’ve eaten the same dirt. I’ve been in the same crappy places you have, and I will do everything I can to make sure you don’t have to go through the things I did. You have my word of it.”

1st CAV to test new 30mm AMPV variant
Dominic Minadeo
Inside Defense

The Army's 1st Cavalry Division has received two 30mm-turreted Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle variants and plans to run the new prototypes through transforming in contact testing with a live gunnery demonstration planned in the coming months.
The division, based at Ft. Hood, TX, yesterday announced taking on the AMPVs, fitted with Kongsberg’s remote MCT-30 turrets in a BAE-led partnership with the Norwegian-based company. The 2nd battalion, 5th cavalry regiment will incorporate the AMPV-30s into testing as part of the Army’s effort to reshape how future armor fights.
“Our troopers are leading the charge once again by integrating this next-generation capability into the formation and transforming how armored divisions fight,” reads a post from 1st Cavalry announcing the deliveries.
The division is expecting another delivery of two more AMPV prototypes in early 2027 with a plan to take them through a National Training Center rotation at Ft. Irwin, CA, an Army spokesperson told Inside Defense.
Kongsberg’s MCT-30 is the same turret as what’s mounted on the Marine Corps’ Amphibious Combat Vehicle 30mm (AVC-30). The turret has been adapted for counter-drone missions, company leaders told Inside Defense this week on the sidelines of the Modern Day Marine conference in Washington.
“We’re demonstrating, I would say, all our weapon systems in counter-UAS enabled scenarios,” Eskild Aas, Kongsberg’s U.S. programs director, said.
The AMPV-30s mirror the prototypes BAE showcased at the Association of the United States Army’s annual conference in Washington last October; the vehicles come with a common crew station that can operate with one less soldier, Inside Defense reported at the time.
The news comes just weeks after Maj. Gen. Thomas Feltey, 1st Cavalry’s commander, told reporters his division is testing the latest Army platforms and is going to be the first to tool around with the new M1E3 Abrams tank and XM30 fighting vehicle prototypes.
“We’re blending the Army’s deliberate modernization platform with this transformation in contact, which is really, really powerful,” Feltey said last month.

A Top U.S. Marine Corps General Says the Iran War Is a Preview of a Far More Costly War With China
Caleb Larson
1945.com

One of the United States Marine Corps’ top generals thinks that China is not a near-peer rival of the United States — it is already a peer rival, and one that he considers the pacing challenge of facing America today.
“There is no threat that looms larger than the People’s Republic of China,” Lieutenant General Stephen Sklenka, the Deputy Commandant for Installations and Logistics, said as part of comments given during a panel discussion during this year’s iteration of the Modern Day Marine Expo. “Don’t listen to this garbage about them being a near peer. They’re a peer because they rival us in nearly every single measure of national influence.”
Formerly the Deputy Commander of U.S. INDOPACOM, General Sklenka had a court-side seat to the developments in that area of the world.
In particular, the general noted, was China’s belligerence toward its neighbors in the region, as well as Beijing’s concerted military buildup within the waters shared with its neighbors.
What, exactly, a war in the Indo-Pacific with China would look like is not known for certain.
But, the general emphasized, one only needs to look to the current conflict between the United States and Iran to get a sense of how destructive a war with China could be — and what that could mean for American forces.
The Iran Connection
Although the casualties suffered by the United States in the course of Operation Epic Fury against Iran, prosecuted with the aid of Israel, are relatively modest for an operation of this scale, the war is not an accurate preview of what a war against China could look like.
That kind of conflict, according to General Sklenka, would be significantly more costly. Still, the casualties accrued in the course of this fight underscore the gravity of war fighting — and how much more costly a future fight is likely to be.
Operation Epic Fury is indicative of “how a mid-tier power can hold a significantly superior force at risk,” General Sklenka said. “As a learning organization, we ask ourselves, ‘how do we carry every lesson from this fight forward, and how do we ensure that we’re equally prepared to dominate the conflict with China?’”
Furthermore, the United States must evaluate “the complexities and complications… with Iran, and then ask… ‘how are we going to respond and act when we’re going up against a nation that’s number two in national GDP?’” the general added. “The fact is that Iran doesn’t have anywhere near China’s economic might.
They don’t have their industrial base. They certainly don’t have their military modernization trajectory.”
Changing Environments
Long gone are the days of the Global War on Terror, when the United States could assume air superiority and overfly battlefields with near-impunity.
The kind of drone warfare seen today in Ukraine is a threat the United States has not yet been forced to contend with — and is an area of potential vulnerability.
And while the United States certainly has orders of magnitude more real-world combat experience than China, General Sklenka said, not all of that experience is necessarily applicable to the kind of combat that could be expected in the future.
“None of us in uniform today have ever had to operate in a world where a legitimate peer simultaneously contests us in every single domain,” General Sklenka emphasized.
He added that the next war will be all-consuming and fought not just on physical fronts, but also in the digital realm. “We are talking terrestrially and non-terrestrially, kinetically and non-kinetically. We’re going to have to fight to get to that fight, and we’re going to have to embrace these challenges and not operate under the auspices of how we did in the 80s and 90s,” he explained.
An Adversary of Immense Proportions
China’s shipbuilding capacity is the largest in the world, and the People’s Liberation Army Navy, or PLAN, is the world’s largest in terms of vessel numbers.
China’s growing prowess in the developing field of artificial intelligence also gives General Sklenka pause — as does China’s nuclear arsenal, currently the world’s fastest-growing.
“History is proven, and our current operations confirm that the society that can project and sustain power and sustain their forces most effectively ultimately they prevail.”
Defending Bases
Perhaps one of the most immediate areas ripe for reinforcement today, the general opined, are American installations in the Indo-Pacific.
Though the United States has air strips, ports, depots, and other infrastructure spread across the Indo-Pacific — some of which date back to the Second World War — those locations will almost certainly be contested.
Some need refurbishment and modernization. “We need integrated base defense, and we need industry’s help to do all this,” he emphasized. “We’re not going to be just fighting from our bases. In many cases, we’re going to be fighting for those bases. That’s a new concept to us. We’ve got to start embracing that.”

Acting SecNav: ‘I’m not going to have my son go to war the way I did'
Meghann Myers
Defense One

Industry can help prevent the Pentagon from making GWOT-era mistakes, said Hung Cao, filling in for his recently ousted boss.
Acting Navy Secretary Hung Cao made his first public remarks Tuesday as the civilian head of the Navy since the Pentagon announced Wednesday that John Phelan would be leaving the role he’d held for just about 13 months.
Cao, a retired Navy explosive ordnance disposal officer and two-time candidate for Virginia congressional seats, appeared at the Modern Day Marine conference in Washington, D.C., in a time slot that Phelan had agreed to fill before his ouster.
“My life changed a little bit the last six days. We've all had a change of command, right? You know, some with the band, some without the band,” he said, alluding to Phelan’s swift firing, which he reportedly learned about when a Pentagon spokesman posted on X. “But again, as warriors, we're always prepared to make sure that we’re able to step up to the position ahead of us and teach the people below us to take over. Because in combat, you lose people, and the fight goes on.”
Cao spoke directly to Marines in the audience. He talked about being under-equipped for the fight during the Global War on Terror, and calling on industry representatives in the audience to help prevent the Navy department from making similar  mistakes in the next conflict. 
“So think about this, as we're developing equipment for our Marines out there, that what you're producing right now is going to save the lives of America's sons and daughters,” he said.
He mentioned his own son, who is to be commissioned a Marine Corps second lieutenant in the coming weeks. 
“That's why I do what I'm doing, because I'm not going to have my son go to war the way I did when we were invading Iraq,” he said. 
In an unusual move for conference keynotes, Cao kept his prepared remarks brief, using the remainder of his time to answer screened questions from the audience. 
Asked about shipbuilding, he appeared to be in sync with Phelan’s approach to fielding the Golden Fleet, centered around the nascent Trump-class battleship.
“The Golden Fleet is not just about ships. It's the whole concept of reforming acquisitions, getting ships out there, from high to low, right?” he said. “You can't use a destroyer for everything.”

American Rheinmetall Presents Amphibious Mission Master and Next-Gen Grenadier System at Modern Day Marine 2026
Aditya Kumar
Defense News

WASHINGTON — April 28, 2026 : American Rheinmetall presented a coordinated suite of unmanned logistics systems and next-generation infantry weapons at the Modern Day Marine 2026, held from April 28 to 30 at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center. The company’s exhibit focused on systems designed for squad- and platoon-level operations, emphasizing autonomous resupply, expeditionary deployment compatibility, and increased individual lethality.
The display at Booth 1907 combined multiple platforms into a single operational concept, highlighting how unmanned ground systems and advanced weapons can be integrated within small Marine units operating in dispersed and littoral environments. The systems presented are configured to minimize additional training and infrastructure requirements, aligning with expeditionary use cases.
Amphibious Autonomous Logistics Platform
The central platform on display was the Mission Master Silent Partner Hotel (MMSP-H), part of the broader Rheinmetall Mission Master family of autonomous uncrewed ground vehicles. The MMSP-H is manufactured in the United States and is designed to operate across both land and water without requiring configuration changes or separate transport systems.
The vehicle has a payload capacity of 2,200 pounds on land and 880 pounds when operating afloat. Its amphibious capability is intended for Marine Corps missions involving ship-to-shore movement, beach landings, and operations across water obstacles. The system can transition directly between terrain types, maintaining continuity in logistics operations.
The MMSP-H holds certification from Naval Air Systems Command, confirming compliance with airworthiness and safety requirements for aviation-related operations. This certification enables multiple insertion methods, including external sling-load transport under heavy-lift helicopters such as the CH-53K King Stallion and parachute delivery into operational areas. The platform is also compatible with internal transport in rotary-wing aircraft.
The vehicle incorporates an electric drive system and is designed with reduced acoustic and thermal signatures. These features support its use in contested environments where detection risk is a factor. Its operational roles include logistics resupply, casualty evacuation, reconnaissance, and surveillance.
Testing and evaluation activities involving the Mission Master platform family have been conducted by U.S. Marine Corps units in multiple locations, including Okinawa, Japan, and at the National Training Center in California. Exercises included casualty evacuation scenarios with the 4th Marine Regiment, validating the platform’s use in expeditionary conditions.
Fielded Unmanned Resupply System
Also presented was the “Wild Goose” unmanned logistics system developed by Marom Dolphin Ltd.. The system represents a fully fielded platform with a Technology Readiness Level (TRL) of 9, indicating operational use and maturity.
Wild Goose is designed for short-range resupply missions at the tactical level. It can carry payloads of up to 330 pounds and has an operational range of approximately 25 kilometers. The system is electrically powered and configured for mobility across varied terrain conditions.
The platform is compatible with multiple military transport systems, including the Infantry Squad Vehicle (ISV), High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle (HMMWV), Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV), and the UH-60 Black Hawk. It can be transported internally or externally depending on mission requirements.
A key feature of the system is its door-bundle deployment capability, which allows it to be pushed from a helicopter during flight as part of an airborne resupply operation. This method does not require specialized delivery equipment or a dedicated aircraft, enabling rapid deployment in austere environments.
Squad-Level Precision Weapon System
The third system showcased was the Highly Advanced Multi-Mission Rifle (HAMMR), a magazine-fed, semi-automatic 40 mm grenade launcher derived from Rheinmetall’s Squad Support Weapon 40 (SSW40) architecture.
The HAMMR is designed to provide squad-level precision fires and is compatible with both low-velocity and medium-velocity 40 mm ammunition. It uses 3-round and 5-round detachable box magazines and is capable of firing programmable airburst munitions.
The system integrates with the Aimpoint FCS15 fire control system, enabling target calculation and munition programming via an infrared interface. This allows engagement of targets behind cover and at extended ranges, increasing first-round hit probability. The HAMMR is also compatible with existing U.S. Army standard 40 mm low-velocity ammunition.
The weapon is positioned for consideration in programs such as the Precision Grenadier System, reflecting ongoing efforts to enhance infantry capabilities at the squad level.
Operational Integration and Marine Corps Context
The systems presented by American Rheinmetall align with the U.S. Marine Corps’ ongoing efforts to expand the use of unmanned platforms in ground operations. By integrating autonomous logistics platforms such as the MMSP-H and Wild Goose, units can reduce reliance on manual resupply and limit exposure during transport tasks.
At the same time, the introduction of systems like the HAMMR supports increased firepower and precision at the individual Marine level. The combination of these capabilities is intended to extend operational reach, support distributed operations, and improve efficiency in environments where traditional logistics and support structures are limited.
The company’s presentation at Modern Day Marine 2026 demonstrated how these systems can function together within squad and platoon formations, providing a combined approach to logistics and combat capability without requiring large-scale system integration.

Bell Unveils MV-75 Tiltrotor Configuration for USMC Use
Kaan Azman
TurDef

Bell has shown its MV-75 Cheyenne II tiltrotor in a new configuration adapted for USMC use, sporting multiple armament provisions, including a nose gun.
Marine MV-75 Cheyenne II shown during Modern Day Marine sports multiple options for armament to support close-range and anti-surface warfare operations.
The armed marine configuration has been displayed as a scaled model with Kongsberg’s NSM cruise missiles mounted on the front fuselage sides and Common Launch Tubes (CLT) that can be fitted with UAVs and munitions. Interestingly, a turreted rotary cannon (Likely 20 mm) is present as well for close air support.
Other than what is seen from the scaled model, folding wings and rotors are more than likely to be present on USMC MV-75s, as they have to be efficiently stored inside LHA or LPD hangars.
If USMC goes through with MV-75, it would be set to succeed UH-1Y naval utility helicopters and AH-1Z attack helicopters with better flight performance and payload capacity.
To support this, the USMC is already considering the replacement of both helicopters, which are based on a many-decades-old design, by 2040 with a single platform, as reported by Aviation Week. Moreover, MV-75, with room for other missions, such as anti-submarine warfare, which the service has been interested in improving, can pave new paths.

Check out the Marine Corps’ ACV-30
Staff
Military & War News

The Marines have their incoming ACV-30 on display at Modern Day Marine…and it’s massive.
Task & Purpose is a military news and culture-oriented channel. We want to foster discussion about the defense industry.

Confidence In CH-53K King Stallion Grows Ahead Of First Operational Deployment
Thomas Newdick
The War Zone

Deliveries of the CH-53K King Stallion to the U.S. Marine Corps are starting to ramp up, with the planned 16-aircraft annual milestone now expected for Fiscal Year 2029. The Marine Corps also says that, for the future, they are open to developing a mine countermeasures version, something that would be able to replace the current MH-53E.
Updates on the latest developments within the Marine Corps’ CH-53K program were today provided by Col. Kate Fleeger, a program manager for the H-53 Helicopters Program, at the annual Modern Day Marine conference in Washington, D.C., at which TWZ is in attendance.
Fleeger confirmed that, while the legacy CH-53E and MH-53E are “both still healthy and viable” and critical components of the Marine Corps fleet, the focus is now very much on the CH-53K as the future of heavy lift.
Currently, four Marine Corps squadrons have CH-53Ks as part of their stable, and Marine Heavy Helicopter Squadron 461 (HMH-461), which was the first fleet squadron, is fully outfitted with Kilos.
“We also have our training squadron, HMHT-302, which has received multiple CH-53Ks and will continue to be a dual type/model series training squadron throughout the transition from the Echo to the Kilo,” Fleeger explained. “We also have the CH-53K in our developmental test squadron, HX-21 at Patuxent River, and with our operational test squadron, VMX-1, in Yuma, Arizona.”
With the CH-53K “rocking and rolling across the board,” the 25th example off the Sikorsky production line in Stratford, Connecticut, was delivered earlier this week. Fleeger said that the service expects to add another eight aircraft for the rest of the year. This is part of a total Marine Corps program of record of 200 aircraft, a figure that has not changed. On top of this figure, Israel has procured 12 CH-53Ks, and Fleeger confirmed that the country is “in conversations” about the potential for additional aircraft.

As part of ongoing training work, HMH-461 has been putting the CH-53K through its paces “in every clime and place in CONUS,” Fleeger said. This has included taking the aircraft on detachments at the Weapons and Tactics Instructor (WTI) school in Yuma, and in exercises out of Twentynine Palms, California.
Fleeger said she is “extremely happy with how the aircraft is performing” with the operational fleet.
Meanwhile, the CH-53K is also still being tested, with the two units covering operational and developmental tests. “We are continuing to expand the envelope of the baseline aircraft that’s been delivered to the fleet, whether it’s expansion of the envelope with the existing equipment, or whether it’s modifications that allow for additional capability moving forward, and ultimately providing those modifications to fleet aircraft,” Fleeger explained.
Part of the recent mission expansion saw one CH-53K lifted by another example of the same type, to broaden options for the Tactical Recovery of Aircraft and Personnel, or TRAP mission. The aircraft that was lifted had its gear boxes and engines removed, but this is common practice, Fleeger said. The purpose of the test was not only to set up and document the flight characteristics, but also the rigging procedures. In the test, the aircraft that provided the sling load weighed about 28,000 pounds, which is well below the 36,000 pounds maximum external load for the CH-53K.
“When you talk to the pilots that lift something like that, even something that heavy, there’s very little ‘feel’ in the cockpit that you have a significant load underneath,” she added.
One of the other elements of additional testing has involved aviation ground fuel delivery. This involved a CH-53K landing with fuel and then providing this fuel to a V-22 tiltrotor that landed next to it.
At the same time, the transition to the CH-53K has involved training pilots with four Containerized Flight Training Devices (CFTD) now delivered. “They are state-of-the-art, fully immersive environments that have some of the highest fidelity visual databases and digital acuity that you’ll see in flight simulation today,” Fleeger said.
“The pilots have every opportunity to see exactly what’s going to happen in the aircraft before they even get in the aircraft. The idea here is the first time a pilot sits in that cockpit on the flight line is kind of a non-event, because he’s basically seen everything he needs to see along the way.”
These new CFTDs consist of a mobile box with the “guts of the simulator inside.” As Fleeger explained, “Gone are the days of the big dome, fully motion-based simulators that we’ve had previously. The motion platform is no longer a big portion of what provides the training fidelity. The majority of that fidelity actually comes from the visual systems, the realism of the visual system, and the haptic cueing to the pilots.
Another training aid is the Advanced Aviation Training Device, or AATD, new for the H-53 community, but loosely based on some of the early developmental training systems that arrived with the V-22, with its interactive cockpit learning environment.
“This is a lower fidelity,” Fleeger said, “There’s just screens, computer monitors, if you will, that show the pilot the outside visuals. But the pilot also has a see-through virtual-reality goggle set that he puts on. It’s absolutely amazing technology that really allows you, with very little additional cost, to be able to get that immersive and simulated environment.”
The AATD is designed primarily as a familiarization training device or for refresher-level training. “You got a few minutes, you go spend some time in here,” Fleeger explained. “You brush up on some stuff. It can also be used for some of the more advanced activities, like tactics, techniques, and procedures development. You can get in there and try some things out before you get to the aircraft and do it in the real world.”
The AATD has been so successful at its current location in New River, close to the training squadron, that the Marines expect to expand throughout the rest of the fleet as it works through the CH-53K transition.
Concurrently, Fleeger says the service has been “very forward-leaning with our Marines in the maintenance shed and making sure that they have the training tools that they need in order to prepare for a state-of-the-art, very data-intensive, data-rich aircraft.”
Maintenance of the fleet benefits from a fully condition-based maintenance model, at least for some of the CH-53K’s components.
“We can look at the vibratory signatures, the temperature signatures on gearboxes, for example, and we can understand when that gearbox might be approaching the end of its life.” The result is that the fleet is increasingly able to manage the maintenance rather than having the maintenance manage them. They can decide when they want to change that gearbox, for example, depending on operational commitments, the amount of flight time they may have planned, the criticality of that flight time, the availability of spares, and so on.
All of this training, including shipboard evolutions, is building up toward the first operational deployment, with the 26th Marine Expeditionary Unit, in Fiscal Year 2027. Last month, the CH-53K fleet hit 10,000 fleet flight hours, a big milestone considering there are currently only 25 aircraft in the fleet.
At this stage, there are 12 aircraft sitting on the production line in Stratford, in various phases of completion.
“The fact that there are 12 aircraft is a big improvement as we move forward in the ramp-up through low-rate initial production,” Fleeger explained.
Once Sikorsky hits the milestone of 16 production aircraft per year, this will trigger the start of the Marine Corps CH-53K transition from East Coast to West Coast, and thus across the entire heavy-lift fleet.
Fleeger said that the line will be “getting up there” toward full-rate production at the end of Fiscal Year 2028, with the milestone to be achieved in FY29.
“The East Coast squadrons will complete transition, and then the transition plan will move out to the West Coast, and we will start transitioning the West Coast squadrons there as well,” Fleeger added. The CH-53E is slated to be retired in 2032.
As for the Navy MH-53E Sea Dragon, it is slated to be withdrawn in 2027. Exactly what will happen with its primary airborne mine countermeasures mission, a general capability set that is increasingly in the spotlight, is unclear. Currently, the Navy is beefing its MH-60 Seahawk mine countermeasures capabilities to help offset the loss. Still, the unique heavy countermeasures sled-towing capability that will be gone when the MH-53E leaves the inventory is likely to be felt, as will the heaviest vertical lift capability organic to the U.S. Navy.
According to Fleeger, “there have not yet been conversations about the Navy procuring the CH-53K or producing a minesweeping variant.” However, she added that “we are certainly open to that in the future, should that need arise.”
Whether or not the CH-53K eventually adopts another new mission, the type is clearly keeping busy for the time being, as the Marine Corps looks forward to taking it on its first operational deployment next year.

Forterra Strengthens Battlefield Autonomy Portfolio With New MESA Vehicle, Extending Mission Capability To The Last Tactical Mile
Forterra
Forterra.com

The new vehicle integrates AutoDrive® and Vektor mission modules, delivering autonomous, computing and sensing technologies
CLARKSBURG, Md., April 28, 2026 — Forterra, the leader in autonomous mission systems, today announced the unveiling of the MESA: a modular, mission-ready autonomous vehicle platform designed to extend operational capability to the last tactical mile. Built on a factory modified Polaris Ranger XD 1500 platform, the MESA integrates Forterra’s AutoDrive® and Vektor mission modules into a scalable system that delivers mobility, compute, communications and sensing at the edge and Polaris’ robust vehicle platform.  
The MESA reinforces Forterra’s approach to autonomy: delivering mission-ready systems that are interoperable and proven in real-world operations such as USMC ROGUE Fires program, in addition to various SOCOM initiatives. By combining field proven autonomy with secure, software defined communication capabilities, the MESA enables forces to deploy coordinated, adaptive impact across a wide range of missions without increasing additional risk to the warfighter.  
"Our MESA vehicle brings together the core elements of autonomous mission execution and OEM manufacturing into a single, deployable platform,” said Pat Acox, Vice President of Defense Growth at Forterra. “Because MESA is built in direct partnership with Polaris, every vehicle comes off the same market-leading production line that delivers Polaris platforms globally, with all modifications executed alongside the OEM. This results in a more robust, fully integrated platform without aftermarket changes to the base vehicle chassis.”
The MESA platform features a flat deck design with L-Track mounting and provides up to 2,000 pounds of payload capacity, enabling rapid reconfiguration for mission-specific needs. Powered by AutoDrive®, the MESA delivers reliable autonomous navigation in complex, GPS-denied environments while Vektor delivers secure, resilient connectivity across distributed forces.  
“Forterra’s engineering team demonstrated a deep understanding of what it takes to field autonomous systems in real-world defense environments, and what they required of the base vehicle platform,” said John LaFata, engineering manager, Polaris Government and Defense. “The Ranger XD 1500 off-road vehicle was selected with operational performance, reliability and scalability in mind. The RANGER XD 1500 was designed to handle heavy loads and extreme terrain, and Forterra has maximized both with MESA, unlocking a new capability on top of that proven vehicle. The result is a platform we’re confident in, and we’re proud to support a solution that has the potential to fundamentally change how ground forces operate.”
Designed for flexibility, the MESA supports a wide range of operational roles, including logistics, force protection and mission-specific payload integration. Its open, modular architecture empowers seamless interoperability with existing platforms, sensors and command systems that accelerate deployment across current and future programs.  
To learn more about the MESA vehicle, visit the Forterra booth (#1624) at MDM 2026, or go to www.forterra.com.
About Forterra  
Forterra is the autonomy backbone for distributed, mission-aware, resilient military operations in contested environments. Building the foundational autonomy platforms that coordinates weapons, sensors, and users through distributed mobility, compute, and communications, anywhere, under fire, without risking human life, Forterra empowers its customers to deploy autonomy as a force multiplier, extending reach, readiness survivability and effectiveness across the battlespace and industrial applications. Forterra is headquartered in Clarksburg, Md., with offices in Arlington, Va., Winter Park, Fl., Ketchum, Id. and Palo Alto, Ca. To learn more, go to?forterra.com.

General Dynamics Unveils ARV-30 Recon Combat Vehicle for U.S. Marine Corps Modern Warfare
Alain Servaes
Global Defense News, Army Recognition Group

U.S. Company General Dynamics showcased the ARV-30 reconnaissance vehicle for the U.S. Marine Corps during the Modern Day Marine exhibition in Washington, D.C., highlighting a major step forward in how Marines detect, track, and engage threats in contested environments. By combining high mobility with heavier firepower and advanced networking, the platform strengthens frontline units’ ability to fight for information and survive against near-peer forces.
The ARV-30 mounts a 30mm cannon and integrates sensor fusion with real-time data sharing, allowing units to identify and engage targets faster while feeding intelligence across the battlefield. This blend of firepower and connectivity reflects a broader shift toward highly mobile, networked reconnaissance forces designed to operate inside contested zones and support distributed operations.
ARV-30 Advanced Reconnaissance Vehicle displayed by General Dynamics Land Systems at Modern Day Marine 2026, showcasing a 30mm-armed 8×8 reconnaissance vehicle designed to enhance U.S. Marine Corps networked warfare capabilities. (Picture source: GDLS)
General Dynamics confirmed on April 28, 2026, via official communication during the event, that the ARV-30 is being developed alongside the ARV-C4UAS (Command, Control, Communications, and Computers/Unmanned Aircraft Systems) variant, reinforcing the Marine Corps’ broader reconnaissance modernization effort. This development is critical for enabling distributed operations, where reconnaissance units must operate across extended battlespaces while maintaining real-time connectivity with manned and unmanned systems.
The ARV-30 represents a significant evolution in Marine Corps reconnaissance doctrine by merging the traditional role of a reconnaissance vehicle with that of a mobile sensor and command node. Equipped with a remotely operated turret mounting a 30mm automatic cannon, the vehicle provides organic direct fire support, allowing reconnaissance units to engage threats without relying on external fire assets. This capability is particularly relevant in high-intensity conflict scenarios where rapid target engagement and autonomy are essential for survivability.
Beyond its kinetic capabilities, the ARV-30 is designed as a core element of a broader reconnaissance ecosystem. It integrates multidomain sensor nodes capable of collecting, processing, and distributing intelligence across the battlespace. Through automated data fusion, the vehicle can aggregate inputs from onboard systems, unmanned aerial vehicles, and external sensors, transforming raw data into actionable intelligence in near real time. This digital backbone directly supports the Marine Corps’ concept of Expeditionary Advanced Base Operations (EABO), where dispersed units rely on resilient networks to maintain operational coherence.
The General Dynamics Land Systems ARV connects to an array of onboard and offboard sensors, plus uncrewed aerial systems (UAS) and, in the future, ground robotic systems. Highly mobile on land and in the water, the ARV allows Marines to sense and communicate like never before on the multi-domain battlefield. The General Dynamics Land Systems design ensures growth margins and modular open architecture to rapidly incorporate new technology as it develops.
The vehicle’s open architecture is a key feature enabling rapid integration of new technologies and mission systems. This modular approach allows the Marine Corps to upgrade sensors, communication systems, and electronic warfare capabilities without redesigning the entire vehicle. It also ensures interoperability with joint and allied forces, a critical requirement in modern coalition operations. Cybersecurity measures embedded within the system architecture further protect data integrity and network resilience against electronic and cyber threats, which are increasingly central to modern warfare.
Complementing the ARV-30, the ARV-C4UAS variant focuses on the integration of command, control, communications, computers, and unmanned aerial systems. Together, these variants form a cohesive reconnaissance family, with the ARV-30 providing firepower and forward sensing while the ARV-C4UAS acts as a coordination hub for unmanned systems. This pairing reflects a doctrinal shift toward manned-unmanned teaming, where reconnaissance units extend their reach and persistence through integrated drone operations.
From an industrial perspective, General Dynamics Land Systems is positioning the ARV program as a cornerstone of future Marine Corps ground modernization. The inclusion of the Digital Twin Sustainment Suite further underscores this approach by enabling predictive maintenance, lifecycle management, and real-time system diagnostics. By creating a virtual replica of the vehicle, the system allows operators and maintainers to anticipate failures, optimize readiness, and reduce logistical burdens, which is essential for expeditionary forces operating in austere environments.
Operationally, the ARV-30 enhances the Marine Corps’ ability to conduct reconnaissance in contested and denied environments. Its combination of mobility, firepower, and network integration allows it to operate as both a sensor and a shooter within a distributed force. This dual role reduces reliance on separate reconnaissance and combat elements, streamlining force structure while increasing combat effectiveness.
Strategically, the introduction of the ARV-30 signals a broader transformation in the Marine Corps' approach to ground reconnaissance. By prioritizing connectivity, data dominance, and multidomain integration, the service is adapting to future conflicts where information superiority and rapid decision-making will be decisive. The ARV-30, along with related systems, positions Marine reconnaissance units to operate effectively against peer adversaries equipped with advanced surveillance, electronic warfare, and precision-strike capabilities.

Marine Corps charts path for future aviation ops led by drones
Mikayla Easley
Defense Scoop

The Marine Corps is targeting 2029 to begin operational testing of its MUX TACAIR drone, while simultaneously exploring how exquisite unmanned systems can be used for other missions.
As the Marine Corps prepares to introduce a robotic wingman drone into its aviation fleet in the next few years, officials are simultaneously parsing out its long-term plans for developing unmanned aerial vehicles for other missions.
The Corps wants to begin operational testing of the Marine Air-Ground Task Force Uncrewed Expeditionary Tactical Aircraft (MUX TACAIR) platform by 2029, said Col. Richard Rusnok, branch head of the Cunningham Group, the service’s aviation-focused innovation unit. The aircraft will be the first of many larger drones that the service plans to field to transform airborne operations. 
“Not just from the perspective of combat capability, we are opening up an entirely new realm in Marine aviation,” Rusnok said Wednesday during the annual Modern Day Marine conference. “I think this is potentially as seismic as what we did when we introduced rotary wing aircraft to the fleet back in the 1950s.”
MUX TACAIR is the Marine Corps’ variant of a Collaborative Combat Aircraft (CCA) — drones designed to fly alongside the military’s manned aircraft to provide additional strike and intelligence-gathering capabilities.
The service contracted Northrop Grumman in January to lead an industry team that will develop and field the first MUX TACAIR increment. The platform itself will be Kratos’s XQ-58 Valkyrie drone equipped with mission kits and autonomy software developed by Northrop Grumman.
Rusnok said the Marine Corps will conduct developmental testing over the next few years to ensure the CCA platform is safe to fly while also integrating mission systems onto the aircraft. Then, the service will begin operational testing with the VMX-1 test squadron before fielding, he said.
But MUX TACAIR is only the beginning of the Corps’ plans for integrating unmanned aerial vehicles. The service has multiple programs in nascent stages of development that aim to leverage drones for a number of different missions.
“We are really using this as an exploratory capability in order to develop a larger mindset for 2040 and beyond,” Rusnok said. 
One near-term effort focuses on pivoting away from contractor-owned, contractor-operated (COCO) agreements for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance. Instead, the service wants to develop an organic ISR (OISR) capability using mid-sized drones, according to Maj. Michael Zbonack, a planner with the Marine Corps Future Concepts UAS.
“That is the Marine Corps’ return to Group 3 UAS operations,” Zbonack said Wednesday during a separate panel at Modern Day Marine. “It will provide persistent overhead coverage for Marines on the ground, in addition to executing whatever missions that the [aviation combat element] requires.”
The OSIR drones would be smaller than the MUX TACAIR platforms, meaning the service can purchase and field them in higher numbers and deploy them in remote locations with limited infrastructure, he said.
The Marine Corps plans to observe technological advancements in Group 3 drones and drill down its requirements for the OSIR program, Zbonack noted. Once details are finalized, officials will make a decision “on whether or not we want to acquire a specific system,” he added.
The service is also exploring how unmanned aircraft provide logistics support to units located in austere environments under two efforts — the Aerial Logistics Connector (ALC) and the Medium Aerial Resupply Vehicle — Expeditionary Logistics (MARV-EL).
A team led by Airbus and Parry Labs is developing an optionally-piloted version of the UH-72 Lakota helicopter for the program, which recently notched its fourth autonomous flight test. The Corps is currently planning for an operational demo of ALC with one of its littoral regiments in the Pacific in 2027, according to Lt. Col Ben Link, head of the Cunningham Group’s vertical takeoff and landing concepts.
“We will fly with prototypes and rapidly learn and refine our requirements,” Link said during a presentation at the conference. “ALC’s mission is clear and critical: to provide autonomous airborne logistics to sustain the stand-in force.”
As for MARV-EL, the Marine Corps recently awarded both Lockheed Martin-subsidiary Sikorsky and Near Earth separate prototyping contracts for the program. The effort is also focused on developing an autonomous cargo helicopter that can resupply Marines in remote locations.
Link explained that while both programs have similar requirements and are complementary to one another, the service is still hashing out their respective requirements.
“As it stands today, MARV-EL is designed to be an organic logistics air vehicle owned and operated by the ground force. ALC is general support to the [Marine Air-Ground Task Force], owned and operated by the aviation side,” he said.
In the long term, the Corps is in the early stages of a program to replace its venerated fleet of Bell A/UH-1 Iroquois helicopters. The service expects to begin conducting market research for the effort — dubbed Future Attack Strike (FASt) — this summer, according to a report from Aviation Week.
Like the UH-1, FASt will be a multi-role helicopter able to conduct armed escort and maritime strike missions, Link said. The service is exploring all options when it comes to the platform’s design, including the potential of it being optionally piloted to leverage manned-unmanned teaming concepts.
“FASt will incorporate advanced technologies to operate in contested environments, while employing a diverse array of kinetic and non-kinetic effects against an ever more capable adversary,” Link said. “A key attribute of this future capability will be our plans to integrate into joint kill webs, enhancing our ability to find, fix, track and engage targets.”
During a separate panel Wednesday, Brig. Gen. Robert Finneran, assistant deputy commandant for aviation, noted that while the 2040 timeline seems distant, it is imperative that the Marine Corps begins work now to get the helicopter’s requirements down. He emphasized that the service is “exploring every option” for the program — such as existing platforms like the MV-75 Cheyenne II, which will serve as the Army’s replacement for the UH-60 Black Hawk fleet.
“We’re just solidifying our top-level requirements and finalizing the request for information back from industry,” Finneran said. “It’ll be a collaborative thing that we do between us and industry. And [the MV-75] certainly could be one of the options, along with others that are at least proposed.”

Marine Corps faces logistical hurdle as 40,000 new drones arrive later this year
GH Staff Desk
Gossip Herald

Col Jeremie Hester highlights the danger of volatile lithium batteries in drone storage

The United States Marine Corps is bracing for a significant logistical and administrative transformation as it prepares to field 40,000 additional drones later this year.
Speaking at the annual Modern Day Marine symposium in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday, Col. Jeremie "Hank" Hester, director of the Aviation Combat Element for Combat Development and Integration, emphasized that the primary challenge is not the drones themselves, but the infrastructure required to support them.
Central to this concern is the massive surge of volatile lithium batteries, which pose severe fire risks if improperly stored or exposed to moisture. "If they get wet, they catch fire... You can't put it out with water," Hester warned.
The Corps currently relies on "incidental operators"—infantry Marines who operate drones as a secondary skill—but leadership is considering formalizing proficiency requirements.
Hester suggested adopting a model from the aviation branch, where operators must log specific hours to maintain their qualifications.
Furthermore, the influx of hardware includes at least six different types of small drones, such as the Neros Archer quadcopter.
This variety creates a "waveform" problem, where different systems struggle to communicate. Hester noted the service is working on a digital "Rosetta Stone" to allow a central hub to interpret commands across various manufacturers and platforms.
Beyond technical connectivity, the administrative burden of maintaining battery charges and ensuring compliance with federal electromagnetic spectrum regulations is stretching resources.
Currently, young Marines are being tasked specifically with monitoring modified shipping containers to ensure batteries remain functional and safe.
As the service seeks to integrate these tools for surveillance and resupply at far-flung outposts, the focus remains on ensuring that the behind-the-scenes prep can keep pace with the rapid technological expansion.

Marine Corps pitching 39% spending increase in FY-27
Nick Wilson
Inside Defense

The Marine Corps' budget request seeks $80.3 billion in fiscal year 2027 -- a 39% increase over the $57.8 billion appropriated in FY-26 as it looks to advance a host of force-design modernization efforts.
The service’s request, which was officially rolled out last week, is part of a massive, Pentagon-wide budget that looks to catapult defense spending to $1.5 trillion using a combination of discretionary and mandatory funds.
If approved by Congress, the Marine Corps’ portion would double Ground Based Air Defense (GBAD) spending and devote substantial resources to amphibious warship procurement, funding one Flight II San Antonio-class ship, one America-class ship and six additional McClung-class medium landing ships.
The budget also looks to boost aviation procurement above previously forecasted levels, with funding for 27 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters, 22 CH-53K King Stallion heavy-lift helicopters, nine KC-130J tankers and five MQ-9A Reaper drones.
The Marine Corps is also preparing for its first full year of Joint Light Tactical Vehicle procurement without the Army, seeking $245 million for 341 JLTVs.
Though Amphibious Combat Vehicle procurement is concluding in FY-26, the service continues to develop the future Advanced Reconnaissance Vehicle and is requesting over $500 million for the program in FY-27 after awarding prototyping contracts earlier this year.
Following the budget request rollout, senior officials are scheduled to appear at the Modern Day Marine conference in Washington this week. They include Commandant Gen. Eric Smith, Deputy Commandant for Aviation Lt. Gen. William Swan and Marine Corps Portfolio Acquisition Executive Lt. Gen. Eric Austin.

Marine Corps preparing to award follow-on ULTV contract to Polaris
Nick Wilson
Inside Defense

The Marine Corps plans to award a follow-on contract to Polaris Government and Defense for Ultra-Light Tactical Vehicle production in the third quarter of fiscal year 2026, according to a government notice.
The sole-source award is expected to buy additional Logistics (ULTV-L) and High-Power (ULTV-HP) vehicle variants, which provide Marines with infantry logistics and casualty evacuation capabilities and serve as host platforms for a variety of other systems.
With five kilowatts of 24-volt exportable power, the high-power ULTV can directly support systems like the Light Marine Air Defense Integrated Systems (L-MADIS) and the Common Aviation Command and Control System (CAC2S).
According to John LaFata, ULTV program manager at Polaris, this built-in power capacity eliminates the need for a secondary generator and frees up deck space for other purposes.
“It keeps the entire bed space open for whatever they need to put on there. If they didn't have a system on there, you could still put casualties there if they need to do a [casualty evacuation] situation. But if they did need to integrate a big system, they have the entire deck to play with,” LaFata said last week at the Modern Day Marine conference.
Polaris, the ULTV original equipment manufacturer, received an initial $109 million contract in 2020 through U.S. Special Operations Command. The company has delivered more than 575 ULTVs to the Marine Corps to date, including 66 of the high-power variant.
For the Marine Corps, the ULTV replaces the legacy Utility Task Vehicle and serves as an important force design platform, capable of internal transport on the MV-22 Osprey and CH-53E and CH-53K helicopters.
The service received about $7.8 million for ULTV procurement in FY-26. It is requesting less than $1 million for program sustainment in FY-27.

Marine division to get first-of-its-kind counter-drone training as officials signal ‘significant concern’ over defeating UAS 
Drew F. Lawrence
Defense Scoop

While details about what the lanes will look like and which counter-UAS systems Marines will employ are scant, the announcement of upcoming training comes as the service continues to build its drone repertoire, including counter-systems, and officials signal concern about how to defeat them on the battlefield.
Over the summer, troops with 2nd Marine Division will head to Twentynine Palms, California, to experience something entirely new to them: drone-defeat training from the service’s primary readiness unit. 
Between mid-July to late August, Marine Air-Ground Task Force Training Command will host the division for an integrated training exercise where it will run troops through counter-UAS “lanes” and possibly incorporate the capability into live-fire scenarios, Maj. Gen. Farrell Sullivan told DefenseScoop on the sidelines of the Modern Day Marine conference. 
While details about what the lanes will look like and which counter-UAS systems Marines will employ are scant, the announcement of upcoming training comes as the service continues to build its drone repertoire, including counter-systems, and officials signal concern about how to defeat them on the battlefield.
“I think if you asked any one of us, that’s a significant concern right now,” Sullivan said of counter-UAS, gesturing to other Marine leaders who took the stage with him at the conference on Tuesday to discuss the future of combat.
“But I know when we go out to service-level training this summer” for the Twentynine Palms exercise, he added, the MAGTFTC “will offer — for the first time — a counter-UAS lane training for the units as they begin their training cycles there, outfitted with the kit so that we can start to get more standard sets and reps in how we employ that capability.”  
Concern from officials on how to knock down drones is not entirely new, but has gained additional scrutiny amid the war with Iran where Tehran has launched thousands of drones against the U.S. and its allies, particularly at the beginning of the conflict. In the first days of what U.S. officials have called Operation Epic Fury, six troops were killed by an Iranian drone in Kuwait. 
Despite years of watching how drone warfare has reshaped modern conflict during the Russia-Ukraine war, the U.S. military has been slow to field its own counter-UAS capabilities, defense experts previously told DefenseScoop, a now-galvanized effort that has seen hundreds of millions of dollars flow to the Middle East for such systems over the course of the war.  
The conflict has been largely defined as a war of munitions attrition, where the U.S. had been employing expensive defensive systems to counter much cheaper attack drones, though DefenseScoop previously reported the Army sent more than 13,000 low-cost Merops platforms to U.S. Central Command in the early days of the conflict.
The Pentagon’s hub for counter-drone efforts, Joint Interagency Task Force 401, has also committed money for systems to protect domestic infrastructure, events and civilians. 
What Marine leaders focused on during Tuesday’s panel were smaller UAS. While Russia employs a version of Iran’s Shahed system, smaller drones — including first-person view platforms — have also wrought havoc across battlefields in Eastern Europe. 
“When you envision the type of fight we’re preparing for, where we would face a peer or near-peer adversary in a high-end fight where all domains are contested, and in some the adversary will have an advantage — that’s not a battlefield we have fought on, at least not since I’ve been in the Marine Corps,” Sullivan said. 
Combined with denied airspace, electronic warfare attacks and other contested domains that have changed rapidly, the Marine Corps is looking to quickly equip tactical-level troops with tools and training to push through that fight.
In recent years, the service has developed larger, more expensive tools, such as the Marine Air Defense Integrated System (MADIS) to small counter-drone optics, which Marines were recently seen with en route to the Middle East.
Maj. Gen. Jason Morris, director of the Marine Corps’ operation division, said that while the service is focused on the UAS threat and it has fielded a number of systems such as the MADIS, “there is still a shortful of maneuver coverage” at the ground combat and logistics level, which has prompted leaders to field counter-UAS kits to smaller formations. 
For the Corps, the counter-UAS efforts also come amid significant attention and resources towards its small drone fleet, DefenseScoop previously reported. Officials from various services have said that scaling both drones and counter-UAS systems continues to be a thorn.
“This is a work in progress,” Morris said. “We’re building the plane as we’re flying it, but we can’t wait on the standard acquisitions program timeline for things to be fielded in five to seven years, because things are changing on the battlefield so much and so quickly that we’ve got to be able to adapt faster than that — in the weeks and months timeframe.”
Sullivan said that units are prioritizing integrating “red” or enemy UAS into training in an effort to expose — and therefore let Marines adapt — to such threats. He mentioned how signature management has changed for Marines: instead of just digging a fighting hole, the service is now seeking new camouflage garments to hide from infrared and thermal imaging.  
“When you have something that’s flying against you that’s observing you, it will change your behavior,” Sullivan said. “I’m not satisfied with where we are in that regard, and so we’re getting after that.”

Marines Realize They Can’t Depend On Army For Ballistic Missile Defense
Joseph Trevithick
The War Zone

The Marines currently rely on already strained Army units to provide defense against incoming ballistic missiles, which could be a big problem in the Pacific.
The U.S. Marine Corps is exploring the possibility of fielding a theater ballistic missile defense capability. A key driver in this discussion is the U.S. Army’s capacity to provide protection against ballistic threats in future conflicts, or lack thereof, something TWZ has highlighted repeatedly in the past. The latest conflict with Iran has underscored the serious threats that ballistic missiles pose even to high-end integrated air and missile defense networks, which would be magnified further in a fight against a near-peer adversary like China.
“We’re exploring theater ballistic missile defense. So we’re doing some studies, we’re running some simulations, to see if that’s a requirement for the service in the future,” Marine Lt. Col. Robert Barclay said during a panel discussion yesterday at the annual Modern Day Marine exposition, at which TWZ has been in attendance.
Barclay is currently the Marine Air Command and Control Systems (MACCS) Integration Branch Head within the Aviation Combat Element Division of the service’s Combat Development and Integration office. His portfolio includes service-wide air and missile defense requirements.
“We know our old sensor used to be able to do it, but it wasn’t really a requirement,” Barclay added. “What we need to determine is, is [defending against] a theater ballistic [missile] like an SRBM [short-range ballistic missile] or MRBM [medium-range ballistic missile], a requirement for the Marine Corps to do? I would argue that it probably is.”
“At the end of the day, I don’t think the Army’s going to have enough capacity with us where we’re operating to actually adjudicate on that threat,” he continued. “So, I think we need to take a hard look at that, and that’s what our intent [is] to do over the next year.”
To take a step back quickly, the Marine Corps’ main general-purpose ground-based anti-air weapon today is the Stinger short-range heat-seeking surface-to-air missile. The service currently fields Stinger in a man-portable air defense system (MANPADS) configuration using shoulder-fired launchers, as well as integrated on the Humvee-based Avenger air defense vehicles. Stinger offers a point defense capability against fixed-wing aircraft, helicopters, drones, and certain types of cruise missiles.
The Marines also hope to reach initial operational capability this year with a new Medium-Range Intercept Capability (MRIC), which is a service-specific variation of the Israeli Iron Dome system. MRIC uses a U.S.-made version of Iron Dome’s Tamir interceptor, called SkyHunter, and a trailer-based road-mobile launcher. Each launcher can accommodate up to 20 interceptors, which come preloaded in individual canisters, at a time. The system uses offboard sensors to spot and track targets and cue missiles to intercept them. The Corps’ existing AN/TPS-80 Ground/Air Task-Oriented Radars (G/ATOR) have been presented as the primary sensor for MRIC.
“The primary target set for MRIC is cruise missiles and your higher-end Group 5-type of [anti-]air application, as well as rotary wing, fixed-wing type of aspects,” Marine Col. Andrew Konicki, the service’s Program Manager for Ground Based Air Defense and another panelist at Modern Day Marine yesterday, explained. MRIC “can go after Group 3, because it’s probably a mismatch in terms of ammunition versus what it’s going after. So it’s primarily focused on that growing threat, or that higher-end threat, so to speak, as part of that integrated air missile defense application and layer defense piece.”
Groups 3 and 5 here refer to different categories of uncrewed aerial systems. The U.S. military defines Group 5 as consisting of drones with maximum weights greater than 1,320 pounds, and that can fly above 18,000 feet. The MQ-9 Reaper is a commonly used example of a Group 5 uncrewed aircraft. Drones that fall under Group 3 have maximum weights anywhere between 56 and 1,320 pounds, can operate at altitudes between 3,500 and 18,000 feet, and reach top speeds of up to 250 knots. Group 3 is very broad, but notably includes Iran’s now-infamous Shahed 136 long-range kamikaze drone, and the growing number of variants and derivatives thereof.
Lt. Col. Robert Barclay’s mention of an unspecified previous Marine ballistic missile defense capability seems most likely to be a reference to the HAWK medium-range surface-to-air missile system. The service retired HAWK in the 1990s, but versions of the system remain in use elsewhere worldwide, including in Ukraine. HAWK has used an evolving mixture of radars for target acquisition and engagement since the system was first introduced in the 1950s, as you can read more about here. Improved HAWK interceptors have also been developed, including variants explicitly intended to offer a rudimentary anti-ballistic missile capability.
The video below shows HAWK systems in service in Ukraine.
Barclay did not elaborate on what level of ballistic missile defense capability the Marine Corps might look to pursue in the future. In the past year or so, there have been reports of Israel using Iron Dome against incoming Iranian ballistic missiles in the terminal phase. However, the system’s effectiveness against ballistic missiles of any kind, which it was never designed to intercept, and whether the Marines might be able to employ MRIC in this role, is unclear.
Today, the main tool for providing ground-based theater ballistic missile defense across all of America’s armed forces is the Army’s Patriot surface-to-air missile systems. The Army also operates the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system, which offers a higher-end ballistic missile defense capability over Patriot. Both Patriot and THAAD are only capable of intercepting incoming ballistic threats during their final terminal phase.
At the same time, as TWZ has highlighted several times in recent years, the Army’s Patriot force is heavily strained due to constant demands that it is simply not adequately resourced to meet. The THAAD force is even smaller and is in equally heavy demand.
The latest conflict with Iran has reignited discussions about the Army’s worryingly limited capacity to meet operational needs for ballistic missile defense, as well as protection against other aerial threats. Between February and April, Iranian forces launched repeated missile and drone attacks on key bases across the Middle East. They were successful in many instances in targeting high-value military assets, including aircraft parked on the ground and air and missile defense radars.
The conflict with Iran also put a new spotlight on concerns about the depth of American stockpiles of air and missile defense interceptors, and the ability to replenish them quickly. Pressure on Patriot and THAAD units would be even more pronounced in a high-end fight, such as one across the broad expanses of the Pacific against China.
The Army has been trying to take steps to rectify these issues, including efforts underway now to expand the size and capabilities of the Patriot force. The U.S. military, overall, has been pushing industry to ramp up capacity to produce air and missile defense interceptors, as well as other critical munitions. At the same time, it will take years to fully achieve these aims.
Still, as Lt. Col. Barclay noted yesterday, questions about Army air and missile defense capacity remain, especially in the context of the Marine Corps’ broader vision for future operations. The service’s current core focus is on preparing for expeditionary and distributed operations involving the relatively rapid deployment and redeployment of forces between forward operating locations that could be well within reach of enemy standoff strikes. The Marines, like the other services, also have large established facilities that would need defending in any major conflict scenario.
The ballistic missile threat ecosystem is also not static. This is underscored by Iran’s recent use of ballistic missiles with cluster munition warheads, which are also designed to release their payloads at very high altitudes, as a way to consistently get around Israeli terminal defenses. TWZ previously explored the very serious broader implications of this in a feature you can find here.
China, in particular, continues to expand on its already diverse arsenal of ballistic missiles. Earlier this month, North Korea also notably tested a ballistic missile with a new cluster munition warhead. These developments are just some examples of a broader surge in ballistic missile developments globally in recent years. Those capabilities continue to proliferate to smaller nation-state militaries and even non-state actors.
Ballistic missiles would be only one part of the threat picture in any future high-end fight. The development of new hypersonic weapons, as well as advanced cruise missiles, continues worldwide. There has also been an explosion in the development and adoption of long-range one-way attack drones like the aforementioned Shahed 136, a trend that now also includes the United States.
“I would argue that the adversary is not just going to throw drones at you. We’re going to have other threats in the future,” Lt. Col. Barclay stressed during yesterday’s panel, which was focused primarily on ongoing efforts to counter uncrewed aerial threats. “You’re going to see probably TBM [theater ballistic missiles], ballistic missiles, coming at you as well in a variety of other types of threats.”
With all this in mind, a new, organic theater ballistic missile capability may now be on the horizon for the U.S. Marine Corps.

MDM News: Marine Aviators Debate Future of Crewed vs. Uncrewed Aircraft
Tabitha Reeves
National Defense Magazine

WASHINGTON, D.C. — While the Marine Corps’ vision for its aviation strategy into the future increasingly employs autonomy in various forms, the need for pilots in the cockpit will remain for decades to come, officials said at the Modern Day Marine conference April 29.
The question that often arises when discussing aviation’s future is whether manned aviation will persist, said Brig. Gen. Robert Finneran, assistant deputy commandant for Marine Corps Aviation.
“I think to some degree, yes,” Finneran said, “but we would also be naive not to believe that autonomy and unmanned systems aren’t going to continue to improve at the rate they are. So, there is going to be different trade-offs, but there is some element of manned in all this.”
Col. Richard “BC” Rusnok, head of Marine Corps Aviation’s Cunningham Group branch, presented the service’s plans for retiring and acquiring aircraft types through 2040, which includes sundowning the CH-53E Super Stallion and F/A-18 Hornet by about 2030 and bringing in a variety of modernized systems and block upgrades through the years.
“As we see what's going on in the world today, the ability to iterate and upgrade these platforms — and sometimes within days or weeks — is incredibly important to our survivability on the battlefield,” Rusnok said.
For example, the war environment in a fight with a near-peer adversary is likely to be complex enough to need to automate some command and control — otherwise individual Marines and networks will become oversaturated, Rusnok said.
Looking at the service’s aviation plans past 2040, “it gets fuzzy as far as exactly what airframes major defense acquisition programs look like,” but what will remain certain are capability needs, such as command and control, fires and mobility, Finneran said.
“We need to start making sure that that fuzzy picture starts to become a lot clearer,” because 2040 is “right around the corner,” Finneran said.
Almost all the aircraft utilized during Finneran’s first-ever Marine Corps deployment in 2001 have since been replaced with new aircraft, he said. The only one that has not been removed yet is the CH-53E, but its successor the Sikorsky-built CH-53K King Stallion is currently in the fielding process.
The traditional lifecycle for Marine Corps aircraft has been about 25 years, which is decent, “but I would charge this entire body — industry and government alike — that we need to move faster,” Finneran said.
Since technology is evolving ever faster, the service must be increasingly agile, picking up the pace to bring new capabilities online, he said.
Balancing modernization with crisis readiness is nothing new for the service, which has been managing the two “since at least the 1920s,” Finneran said.
However, even being “a very technologically-driven force,” the Marine Corps Aviation’s success as an entity comes down to individual Marines, Rusnok said.
“Our ability to recruit, retain, develop and train those Marine aviation professionals — be it in the cockpit, on the flight line, in our aviation ground support elements and our command and control elements — is incredibly important to us realizing this vision in the end because none of this means anything without those individual Marines,” Rusnok said.

MDM News: Simplicity Key to Integrating Autonomy for the Marine Corps
Tabitha Reeves
National Defense Magazine

WASHINGTON, D.C. — When it comes to integrating autonomy into Marine Corps operations, it is important to embrace simplicity over complex technological advancements and move step-by-step deliberately, a service official said at the Modern Day Marine conference April 29.
Autonomous technology entails “a lot of pieces of the puzzle that we have to talk about, but we need to go slow. We need to go one step at a time,” said Col. Kenny Jones, science and technology director at the Marine Corps Warfighting Laboratory and the Marine Corps’ robotics and autonomous systems capability portfolio manager.
Jones presented an image to his audience depicting an assortment of uncrewed vehicles dotting the sky in clusters, with autonomous maritime systems on the waves below, amphibious vehicles moving towards the shore and ground vehicles on the sand.
“This is where we want to go,” he said, “but we’re not going to get there tomorrow.”
There are numerous challenges to integrating new technologies to keep pace with the rapidly evolving battlefield, but the “true challenge of autonomous systems in the Marine Corps is, how do we take an organization whose trust is in the skill and the discipline of the individual Marine and get us to a place where we can trust autonomous systems?” Jones said.
The service currently has a limited number of uncrewed platforms in its fleet, with the primary one being the Autonomous Low-Profile Vessel, he said.
The ALPV — which he noted is currently a prototype and not yet a program of record — is a slender uncrewed surface vessel being tested by the Marine Corps for logistics purposes, such as carrying cargo from one place to another.
“That’s about the limit right now of where we are with autonomy,” he said.
The three key lessons the service is learning as it attempts to bring in new uncrewed systems are: keep it simple, move one step at a time and meet people where they are. Moving too fast when developing or integrating technology can mean introducing too many variables at once, resulting in multiple failure points and uncertainty about the source, he said.
“Unfortunately, sometimes we go too fast,” Jones said.
He recalled a recent instance of the service developing an uncrewed ground vehicle alongside a company where adding a variety of advanced elements from the start meant “it just didn’t work out,” and the servicemembers involved in the project agreed to start with simplicity moving forward.
The Marine Corps’ first-ever autonomous ground vehicle does not need to boast “a gun system, and a counter-UAS system, and it's electric, and it's fully autonomous. All I want to do in the first step with an unmanned ground vehicle is I want to be able to put logistics on a flat bed on a wheeled vehicle.”
It being a wheeled vehicle is a key point because it is helpful to give warfighters “something familiar,” he said. Marines already tend to drive wheeled vehicles with diesel engines, which means many of the spare parts are already accessible and mechanics are already trained.
From there, more sophisticated components can be added — such as sensors, machine guns and counter-drone weapons — “but let's not work on those things until we’ve perfected moving this thing autonomously,” Jones said.
Eventually, a great achievement — or “holy grail” — would be possessing software capable of controlling dozens of systems at once, across many domains, Jones said. And while the service and its contractors could “rush to failure” by attempting to accomplish this goal all at once, a better route is to begin by controlling two or three systems at a time before scaling the numbers.
The Wright brothers in their pursuit of aviation spent a long time perfecting the wing of the aircraft before ever taking flight, Jones noted.
“They stayed focused on the fundamentals,” he said. “They weren't distracted by folks that would come out and watch after they perfected the wing. They next focused on an engine.”

Military leaders want a more integrated, joint approach to drone dominance
Brandi Vincent
Defense Scoop

The military’s adoption of drones and counter-drone tech has been historically fragmented, with each service pursuing its own strategies.
As the Pentagon goes all-in on “drone dominance,” the U.S. military must pivot away from existing service-by-service stovepipes and institute a connected, joint approach to deploying autonomous and robotics assets in warfare, according to Marine Corps Commandant Gen. Eric Smith and Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Daryl Caudle.
“I want to be direct on something here — the Navy and Marine Corps should not be independently building two versions of the same autonomous future,” Caudle said onstage Thursday morning at the Modern Day Marine conference. “Where requirements overlap, we should converge quickly. Where standards matter, we should align. Where speed matters, we should and must integrate.”
In response to questions from DefenseScoop after his keynote Thursday afternoon, Smith said he “absolutely” agrees with the CNO.
“It’s got to be integrated, because it can’t be one thing for one service and one thing for another,” Smith said. “Our industrial base won’t support that — and frankly, our budget won’t support that.”
Their comments come as the Pentagon is heavily investing in a variety of aerial and maritime drones, and hustling to adopt them for modern missions and in ongoing conflicts across multiple regions of the world. 
The U.S. military’s adoption of drones and counter-drone tech has been historically fragmented, with each service branch typically pursuing its own purchases and strategies.
“The department has a real opportunity right now to move faster than legacy acquisition models would suggest, but only if we stay disciplined and connected. To our industry teammates, hear me clearly: I do not need another flawless slide deck. I need capabilities that work in salt water. I need systems that can survive jamming. I need payloads that can be maintained by operators. I need software that updates quickly over the air, like an app. I need platforms that can deploy now, not in some mythical future block,” Caudle said. “And when we get autonomy right, it will amplify both our sailors and Marines in ways we can only begin to imagine and appreciate.”
Autonomous surface and subsea vessels, and unmanned aerial systems offer military personnel scalable, adaptable, and lower-cost options that create outsized operational advantage, in his view. They’re key enablers of distributed fires and sea denial, as well as sensing, screening, deception, strike support and more.
“These systems are not here to replace warfighters. They’re here to extend the warfighters’ lethality. They create reach, they create mass, they create time, and they create dilemmas for the enemy,” Caudle said.
In his keynote, Smith echoed that sentiment and shed light on how the Marine Corps is prioritizing unmanned systems and capabilities to fight adversarial drones that are increasingly threatening U.S. forces.
“Counter-UAS is a real challenge,” the commandant said. “And we’re trying very hard to mimic what’s going on out in the real world. What you see in the ‘Ukraine fight’ versus the ‘Russia fight,’ to where the UAVs are ubiquitous across the battlefield, to where we don’t need to deconflict airspace for a small UAV — just keep it below 1,000 feet and you can fly anywhere, anything you want to do. We’ve got to automate our drones so we launch them in swarms and they’re talking to each other.”
He further noted that the U.S. needs to increase production capacity in a way that enables the services to treat drones as they do munitions. 
“Just like a hand grenade — you don’t need permission to throw a hand grenade. The operator knows when that picture is safe, that you’re not going to frag yourself or frag your mates, then you throw out a grenade,” Smith noted. “It’s the same thing with a drone. That’s what we’ve got to get to.”
Regarding the need for an integrated drone and robotics approach to fuse the joint force’s disparate activities, he also called for one, single set of standards that many vendors can provide for. 
“It doesn’t matter to me who makes the drone. I just want the drone. It doesn’t matter to me who manufactures my artillery shell. I just need the shell,” he said.
The Defense Department launched its $1.1 billion-dollar Drone Dominance Program late last year, setting a goal to buy and equip forces with more than 300,000 domestically-produced, weaponized drones by 2027.
DOD’s budget request for fiscal 2027 also proposes $54.6 billion for the nascent Defense Autonomous Warfare Group, or DAWG.
Pentagon officials have been mostly tight-lipped about the DAWG’s progress and functions since it was unveiled in 2025. It has been broadly billed as a specialized, high-level team that’s a successor of the Biden-era Replicator initiative to purchase and deploy thousands of attritable drones.
When asked who could lead a single unmanned strategy for the joint force, Caudle pointed to the complexity of the current operating environment, where there’s multiple overlapping venues and hubs prioritizing drones — including but not limited to the Navy’s warfare systems directorate and Rapid Capabilities Office, the DAWG, and the Pentagon’s Defense Innovation Unit. 
“So, we’ve got a lot of this going on, and I do think we need to get our house in order,” Caudle said. “So, we’re moving out with [command and control] along the force generation, but I don’t know that we’re there from a force employment [perspective] yet.”
The CNO said he believes Chairman of the Joint Chiefs Gen. Dan Caine and Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth recognize this requirement.
Notably, Hegseth briefly told lawmakers on Wednesday that his team is looking to establish a new sub-unified command for autonomous warfare. The Pentagon has not supplied details about that plan or answered questions about how the new hub would work with the services and the DAWG.
“As we think about how we bring unmanned capabilities to bear in the theater, does that roll up under a new warfare command construct? I tend to think — when we package it correctly — it probably will,” Caudle said at Modern Day Marine. “So, in the strike group world, we have an integrated air [and] missile defense commander. We’ve got a sea combat commander. We, of course, got the information warfare commander. Could you think about a robotic and autonomous system commander? I think you could. The way these things are packaged, and the way you deliver that combat power and that lethality, it’s going to be an ensemble of unmanned [systems], and so I think that’s best.”

Modular Uncrewed Ground Vehicle for Littoral Operations
Staff
Aeronautics and Defense Technologies

Textron Systems introduces scalable robotic platform for U.S. Marine Corps mobility and uncrewed teaming missions.
Textron Systems Corporation, in collaboration with Howe & Howe Inc., presented a new uncrewed ground vehicle (UGV) technology demonstrator designed for littoral mobility, reconnaissance, and autonomous combat support in expeditionary environments.
Demonstration Context and Operational Role
The vehicle was introduced at the Modern Day Marine Exposition 2026, held in Washington, D.C. on April 28, 2026. The platform is developed to support operational concepts aligned with the U.S. Marine Corps’ Force Design 2030, particularly in distributed maritime operations and contested littoral zones.
The system is positioned as a robotic extension to existing platforms such as the Advanced Reconnaissance Vehicle (ARV) and Amphibious Combat Vehicle (ACV), enabling manned–unmanned teaming and reducing direct exposure of personnel in high-risk missions.
Modular Open Systems Approach and Scalability
The demonstrator is based on a Modular Open Systems Approach (MOSA), a design framework widely adopted in defense systems to ensure interoperability, upgradeability, and vendor-agnostic integration. This architecture allows the platform to scale size, weight, power, and payload (SWaP) configurations depending on mission requirements while maintaining a common robotic control core.
Such modularity supports integration into a broader digital supply chain, enabling faster upgrades and compatibility with evolving sensor, autonomy, and weapon subsystems. The standardized architecture also aligns with U.S. Department of Defense requirements for open-system interoperability.
Mission Capabilities and Payload Integration
The UGV is designed to support multiple mission profiles, including reconnaissance, surveillance, and target acquisition (RSTA), as well as counter-unmanned aircraft system (C-UAS) operations. Its payload flexibility allows integration of hard-kill counter-UAS systems, enabling kinetic interception of aerial threats.
Additionally, the platform can function as a launch system for loitering munitions, extending operational reach without requiring direct deployment of manned assets. These capabilities position the vehicle as a force multiplier in distributed operations, where rapid deployment and adaptability are critical.
Mobility and Battlefield Functionality
The tracked configuration of the platform is optimized for high-mobility operations across varied terrains, including coastal and amphibious environments. Its compact and transportable design supports deployment from multiple platforms, including amphibious vehicles and naval assets.
By offloading high-risk tasks such as forward reconnaissance or threat engagement, the system contributes to preserving higher-value crewed vehicles and reducing operational risk. The emphasis on transportability and agility aligns with expeditionary warfare requirements, where rapid repositioning and logistical efficiency are essential.
Autonomous Systems Integration
The platform leverages experience from multi-domain autonomous systems development, integrating land-based robotics with operational principles derived from air and maritime uncrewed systems. This cross-domain approach supports consistent control architectures and data exchange frameworks, contributing to a broader automotive data ecosystem within military robotics.
The use of a common robotic core across vehicle variants enables unified command-and-control interfaces, reducing operator training complexity and facilitating coordinated autonomous operations.
Industry Context and Comparative Positioning
Within the defence robotics sector, modular UGV platforms are increasingly evaluated based on interoperability, payload flexibility, and autonomy integration. Comparable systems from other manufacturers also adopt MOSA principles; however, differentiation typically lies in scalability of SWaP configurations and integration with existing combat vehicle ecosystems.
The presented system emphasizes compatibility with Marine Corps-specific platforms and doctrines, particularly in littoral and expeditionary operations, where integration with amphibious systems is a key requirement.
Development Background
Howe & Howe Inc. contributes expertise in rugged robotic land systems designed for extreme environments, while Textron Systems brings multi-domain uncrewed systems experience across air, land, and maritime applications. The combined development approach reflects a trend toward integrated defence platforms that operate within unified operational architectures.
Conclusion
The demonstrated uncrewed ground vehicle highlights ongoing advancements in modular defence robotics, with a focus on scalability, interoperability, and mission adaptability. By combining MOSA architecture with multi-role payload capability, the platform addresses evolving operational requirements for distributed, autonomous, and risk-reduced ground operations.

MUX MALE Increment II reaches IOC
Abby Shepherd
Inside Defense

Critical upgrades to the MQ-9A Reaper's mission have reached initial operational capability, an official announced Tuesday at the Modern Day Marine conference.
The service’s Medium Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) program -- part of the Unmanned Aircraft System Expeditionary program (MUX) -- is undergoing a series of upgrades with payloads and capabilities.
While Increment One consisted of upgrades to ground control stations, airframes and Sky Tower I -- a network extension program -- Increment II goes further, Col. Leigh Irwin, program manager of multi-mission tactical unmanned aerial systems, said.
The MUX MALE Increment II Capability Spiral consists of a secure mission control element, Sky Tower II pod, electronic warfare pod, proliferated low Earth orbit satellite communications system, maritime domain awareness pod and a detect and avoid system. This increment recently reached IOC, Irwin said.
“The MQ-9A will continue to expand the [Marine Air-Ground Task Force’s] access across the Pacific, coupling aviation presence and persistence. Increment II payloads and capabilities, such as airborne network extension, electronic support, pLEO communications, and MDA sensors, empower the MAGTF and partner decision-makers with shared awareness across distributed forces and close kill chains faster along remote littorals,” according to the Marine Corps aviation plan released in February.
In its fiscal year 2027 budget request, the Navy is asking for five additional MQ-9As, for a total of $118 million. This will “increase tactical flexibility as well as aircraft availability,” the documents state.

NASCAR firm brings six-wheel Mothership vehicle to Marine Expo
Colton Jones
Defense Blog

Key Points
- RCR Manufacturing Solutions displayed the 6-Wheeled Adaptable Platform Mothership at Modern Day Marine in Washington, D.C., April 28-30.
- The vehicle previously participated in a Lockheed Martin Joint Air-to-Ground Missile vertical launch demonstration as a ground-based launch platform.
A NASCAR team just rolled a six-wheeled military platform onto the Modern Day Marine show floor — and it already has a Lockheed Martin missile test on its resume.
Richard Childress Racing Enterprises, LLC, known across motorsport as the organization behind one of NASCAR’s most storied racing programs, brought its 6-Wheeled Adaptable Platform to Modern Day Marine in Washington, D.C. The vehicle goes by a name that fits its ambition: Mothership. It is a ground-mobile platform designed to integrate advanced defense technologies, serve as a mobile base for launching both drones and missiles, and deliver what RCR describes as a “launch-anywhere” capability across multiple domains. It is not what most people expect to see parked next to a banner that reads “RCR Manufacturing Solutions.”
The Mothership’s show floor debut comes with credentials that go beyond a concept vehicle on a red carpet. Before Modern Day Marine, the platform participated in a Joint Air-to-Ground Missile demonstration conducted in partnership with Lockheed Martin — specifically a JAGM vertical launch demonstration, designated JQL VL, that validated the vehicle’s ability to serve as a ground-based missile launch platform. The JAGM is a precision-guided air-to-ground missile used by U.S. military rotary and fixed-wing aircraft; the vertical launch variant extends that capability to ground and other platforms. Having the Mothership appear in a live Lockheed Martin missile demonstration before its public show debut puts it in a different category from the concept vehicles that populate defense trade show floors without ever having fired anything.
Mike Verlander, President of RCR Enterprises, LLC, made the connection between the company’s racing heritage and its defense ambitions explicit: “Using the same manufacturing, machining, and engineering capabilities that drive our race teams and engine company, RCR Enterprises is becoming a trusted integrator in the defense space, particularly in ground mobility, as proven by our recent successful Lockheed Martin JQL VL demonstration.” That statement carries weight precisely because it is backed by a demonstration that actually happened, with a partner — Lockheed Martin — whose standards for platform performance are not modest.
The logic of a NASCAR operation moving into defense manufacturing is less surprising than it might appear. Racing at the NASCAR level demands precision manufacturing, rapid iteration, aggressive weight reduction, and engineering solutions that must perform under extreme stress without failure — a set of requirements that maps cleanly onto military ground vehicle development. RCR Manufacturing Solutions has been operating as a defense industry supplier since 2014, building on the same supply chain, machining capabilities, and engineering discipline that the racing program runs on. The Mothership is the most visible expression of that decade-plus of defense work, but it sits on top of an established foundation rather than emerging from nowhere.
The platform itself — formally designated the 6WAP, for 6-Wheeled Adaptable Platform — is described as lightweight and modular, qualities the Marine Corps consistently prioritizes in ground vehicles intended for expeditionary operations. RCR’s own framing of the vehicle aligns it explicitly with Marine Corps culture: “This lightweight modular platform defines adaptability and aligns itself with the Marine mentality of doing more with less.” That is targeted marketing, but it reflects a genuine design philosophy. A platform that can launch drones, launch missiles, and reconfigure for different mission sets without requiring a dedicated vehicle for each role is exactly the kind of force-multiplying capability that a Corps operating in dispersed, logistics-constrained environments is looking for.
The JQL VL connection to Lockheed Martin is worth dwelling on. Lockheed Martin’s Joint Air-to-Ground Missile program has been one of the more successful precision munitions programs of recent years, with the JAGM replacing older Hellfire variants across multiple platforms. The vertical launch configuration — JQL VL — is designed to give ground vehicles, naval vessels, and other platforms access to the same precision strike capability that helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft have carried for years. Verlander noted directly that “the RCR Mothership 6×6 is an example of how JQL has the flexibility to be mounted onto ground vehicles, naval vessels and airborne platforms, allowing for an expansive future business growth path.” A successful live demonstration with Lockheed Martin gives that growth path a foundation of demonstrated performance rather than engineering promises.
The broader picture here is a defense industry that increasingly draws on non-traditional manufacturing sectors for the engineering talent and production capability that conventional defense primes cannot always supply quickly enough. Automotive and motorsport manufacturing, aerospace composites, and commercial technology companies have all found pathways into defense supply chains over the past decade, driven by the recognition that precision manufacturing is precision manufacturing regardless of what it originally produced. RCR Manufacturing Solutions represents that trend with particular clarity — a company that built its reputation making components that survive 200-mile-per-hour racing environments, now applying those same capabilities to platforms that need to survive combat.
On the Modern Day Marine show floor, the Mothership sits among dozens of systems competing for Marine Corps attention. What sets it apart is not just the six-wheel configuration or the modular architecture — it is the Lockheed Martin missile demonstration that preceded its arrival. In a market where concepts are common and demonstrated performance is rare, that distinction matters more than any amount of show floor presentation.

ParaZero to Showcase DefendAir Counter-UAS Solutions at Three Major International Defense Exhibitions
GlobeNewswire
The Manila Times

Kfar Saba, Israel, April 28, 2026 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) --  ParaZero Technologies Ltd. (Nasdaq: PRZO) (the "company” or "ParaZero”), an aerospace defense company pioneering smart, autonomous solutions for the global manned and unmanned aerial systems (UAS) industry, today announced its participation in three major international defense exhibitions in the coming weeks, where it will showcase its advanced DefendAir Counter-Unmanned Aerial Systems (C-UAS).
The exhibitions include:
Modern Day Marine (April 28-30, 2026, Washington, D.C.) - The premier event dedicated to the U.S. Marine Corps, focusing on expeditionary and littoral warfare capabilities.
BSDA - Black Sea Defense & Aerospace (May 13-15, 2026, Bucharest, Romania) - The leading defense and aerospace exhibition in the Black Sea region, attracting NATO members and regional armed forces.
SOF Week (May 18-21, 2026, Tampa, Florida) - The premier global event for Special Operations Forces and United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM), bringing together elite operators and international partners.
At these three exhibitions,ParaZero will present its DefendAir family of products, featuring the company’s net-based multi-layered solutions ranging from autonomous interception and perimeter defense systems to portable, operator-controlled tools designed to address diverse aerial threat scenarios.DefendAir is a multi-layered, soft-kill Counter-Unmanned Aerial Systems (CUAS) solution featuring patented net-launching technology that enables non-kinetic interception of hostile drones with minimal collateral damage.
DefendAir, sets the standards of not lethal, yet kinetic CUAS warfare and has previously demonstrated 100% interception success in multiple field trials and is designed to protect troops, infrastructure, and urban environments from evolving unmanned aerial threats.
"Participating in these prestigious exhibitions allows us to engage directly with key decision-makers across the U.S. Marine Corps, European NATO forces, and the global Special Operations community,” said Ariel Alon, CEO of ParaZero. "We believe that these three exhibitions will provide us with a prime oppurtunity for global exposure and reaching key defense palyers.DefendAir’s lightweight, operator-focused design is ideally suited for the evolving threats in modern asymmetric warfare, and we look forward to demonstrating its proven performance.”
Attendees and interested parties are invited to schedule meetings with the ParaZero team via the following link:
About ParaZero Technologies
ParaZero Technologies Ltd. (Nasdaq: PRZO) is an aerospace defense company pioneering smart, autonomous solutions for the global manned and unmanned aerial systems (UAS) industry. Founded in 2014 by aviation professionals and drone industry veterans, ParaZero is a recognized leader in advanced drone technologies, supporting commercial, industrial, and governmental operations worldwide. The company’s product portfolio includes SafeAir, an autonomous parachute recovery system designed for aerial safety and regulatory compliance; DefendAir, a counter-UAS net-launching platform for protection against hostile drones in both battlefield and urban environments; and DropAir, a precision aerial delivery system. ParaZero’s mission is to redefine the boundaries of aerial operations with intelligent, mission-ready systems that enhance safety, scalability, and security. For more information, visit
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act and other securities laws. Forward-looking statements contained in this press release include, but are not limited to, statements regarding ParaZero’s strategic and business plans, technology, relationships, objectives and expectations for its business, growth, the impact of trends on and interest in its business, intellectual property, products and its future results, operations and financial performance and condition and may be identified by the use of words such as "may,” "seek,” "will,” "consider,” "likely,” "assume,” "estimate,” "expect,” "anticipate,” "intend,” "believe,” "do not believe,” "aim,” "predict,” "plan,” "project,” "continue,” "potential,” "guidance,” "objective,” "outlook,” "trends,” "future,” "could,” "would,” "should,” "target,” "on track” or their negatives or variations, and similar terminology and words of similar import, generally involve future or forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts, and are based upon management’s current expectations, beliefs and projections, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain. Such expectations, beliefs and projections are expressed in good faith. However, there can be no assurance that management’s expectations, beliefs and projections will be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from what is expressed in or indicated by the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. For a more detailed description of the risks and uncertainties affecting the Company, reference is made to the Company’s reports filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC”), including, but not limited to, the risks detailed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC on March 26, 2026. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made. The Company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, subsequent events or circumstances, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information except to the extent required by applicable securities laws. If the Company does update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements. References and links to websites have been provided as a convenience, and the information contained on such websites is not incorporated by reference into this press release. ParaZero is not responsible for the content of third-party websites.

SkyHunter missile facility to begin producing in next 12 months, program manager says
Nick Wilson
Inside Defense

RTX's Camden, AR, facility is expected to begin producing missiles for the Marine Corps' Medium Range Intercept Capability within the next 12 months, according to Ground Based Air Defense Program Manager Col. Andrew Konicki.
RTX and Israeli company Rafael broke ground on the facility in 2024 to build Tamir interceptors for the Israeli Iron Dome air defense system and SkyHunter missiles for MRIC. The facility was previously expected to begin producing in late 2025 or early 2026.
“The Arkansas facility is well underway in terms of building out that facility,” Konicki told Inside Defense this week. “My last touchpoint with Raytheon on that piece was that they are expecting to hit [initial operational capability] this summer. So that's progressing very, very well. And then we're going to start producing MRIC missiles and launchers, ideally within the next 12 months.”
Speaking during the Modern Day Marine conference in Washington, Konicki said MRIC completed its rapid prototyping phase approximately six months ago. The service currently has one platoon fielded, he added.
The Marine Corps expects to fully equip three MRIC batteries within the next three years, according to its October 2025 force design update.
MRIC combines the Ground/Air Task Oriented Radar system, the Common Aviation Command and Control System and parts of the Israeli Iron Dome system to defend against airborne threats including cruise missiles and unmanned aircraft.
The MRIC SkyHunter missile shares 95-99% commonality with Iron Dome’s Tamir interceptor. The Marine Corps has worked with RTX to establish a domestic missile source.
In September, Raytheon Missiles and Defense received a $380 million contract modification for MRIC full-rate production. The modification followed an earlier $25 million award for 16 all-up-round magazines, consisting of 80 SkyHunter missiles along with launchers and other equipment.
The Marine Corps’ fiscal year 2027 budget request includes $233.6 million for MRIC, with $157.6 intended to procure 16 launchers and 410 missiles to support the rapid fielding of a single MRIC battery.
MRIC is part of the service’s GBAD portfolio, which could see a substantial funding boost in FY-27. The service has requested $1.27 billion for the full portfolio, a sum that would more than double the $620 million appropriated in FY-26 if it is approved by lawmakers.

Teledyne FLIR adds Emesent Hovermap to third-party payload programme
Jangoulun Singsit
Global Data

Teledyne FLIR Defense has certified Emesent’s Hovermap LiDAR payload for use across its uncrewed aerial systems (UAS), ground robots, and radiation detection platforms.  
The certification, announced at Modern Day Marine 2026, expands Teledyne FLIR’s Third-Party Payload Integration Program.  
As part of this collaboration, Emesent’s 3D mapping technology, which does not rely on GPS, will be able to operate on a range of Teledyne FLIR hardware.  
The approach addresses operational needs in environments where uncrewed systems can lose GPS connectivity, including tunnels, urban structures, and areas affected by chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) threats.  
The Hovermap system utilises LiDAR-based Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) to generate real-time, accurate 3D models without the need for external infrastructure. 
According to Teledyne FLIR, the integration of this system into its SkyRanger R70 and R80D SkyRaider UAS will enable mapping in locations without GPS.  
When used with the SUGV 325 ground robot, the system provides continuous 3D data for navigation in complex indoor or underground environments.  
Combined with the MUVE R430 radiation detection payload, operators can view both the robot’s path and areas with elevated radiation, supplying CBRN teams with geo-referenced threat information. 
Teledyne FLIR Defense North America Unmanned Systems vice president Tung Ng said: “Teledyne FLIR builds platforms trusted for the most demanding CBRN missions in the world. Working with Emesent, we’ll be able to give operators a fused, spatial picture of the threat environment they simply haven’t had access to before. This is the direction the whole field is heading in, and we’re delivering it now through certified third-party payloads like Hovermap.”
Teledyne FLIR Defense, a subsidiary of Teledyne Technologies, certifies payloads following assessments of mechanical and electrical compatibility, software integration, and flight performance. 
This process, supported by its open-architecture development model, aims to support a variety of mission requirements through its partner ecosystem. 
The partnership with Emesent includes plans for ongoing development in autonomous navigation and enhanced sensor integration for a range of CBRN detection applications.  
Both firms indicated that the technical developments from this cooperation would support future capabilities.
Joint solutions from Emesent and Teledyne FLIR Defense were presented during Modern Day Marine 2026 at Marine Corps Base Quantico.
"Teledyne FLIR adds Emesent Hovermap to third-party payload programme" was originally created and published by Army Technology, a GlobalData owned brand.

Teledyne FLIR adds GPS-denied 3D-mapping capabilities to its CBRN uncrewed platforms
Flavia Camargos Pereira
Shepard Media

In a partnership with Emesent, Teledyne FLIR will equip its autonomous air, ground and detection systems with the Hovermap LiDAR payload in a move that highlights a broader market shift towards modular architectures, shared payloads and interoperability across platforms.
Teledyne FLIR is expanding its third-party payload integration programme and will fit part of its portfolio of autonomous systems with Emesent’s Hovermap LiDAR payload. The GPS-denied 3D-mapping capability will equip uncrewed aerial systems (UAS), ground robots and radiation detection platforms.
According to the company, the solution addresses a gap “in air and ground domains where unmanned systems can lose GPS connectivity in common operating areas, such as tunnels, urban structures and CBRN [chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear]-contaminated spaces”.
The manufacturer announced the solution’s certification on 28 April at the Modern Day Marine 2026 Symposium at Marine Corps Base Quantico, Virginia.

Teledyne FLIR certifies Emesent Hovermap LiDAR for drones, ground robots and radiation detection payloads
Editorial Team
Drastic News

Teledyne FLIR Defense has expanded its Third-Party Payload Integration Program by certifying Emesent’s Hovermap LiDAR payload for use across the company’s unmanned aerial systems, ground robots and radiation detection platforms.
The announcement was made at Modern Day Marine 2026 in Quantico, Virginia. The companies said the integration is intended to support operations in GPS-denied environments where unmanned systems can lose connectivity, including tunnels, dense urban structures and CBRN-contaminated spaces.
Hovermap uses LiDAR-based simultaneous localisation and mapping (SLAM) to generate 3D maps without GPS or external infrastructure, according to the release. Teledyne FLIR said the payload has been certified for use on its SkyRanger R70 and R80D SkyRaider UAS platforms, and on its SUGV 325 ground robot.
Teledyne FLIR also said Hovermap can be integrated with its MUVE R430 radiation detection payload on the SUGV, with the aim of giving operators a geo-referenced view that links the robot’s movement through an environment with radiation readings.
Stefan Hrabar, co-founder and chief strategy officer at Emesent, said the integration could support real-time situational awareness for CBRN teams by combining spatial mapping with radiation detection without placing personnel in hazardous areas.
Tung Ng, vice president of unmanned systems North America at Teledyne FLIR Defense, said the combination is intended to provide operators with a fused spatial view of the threat environment. He added that the company expects more capability to be delivered through certified third-party payloads.
Teledyne FLIR said certified payloads are assessed for mechanical fit, electrical interface, software compatibility and flight performance. The companies said the partnership also establishes a technical foundation for future work, including autonomous navigation and expanded multi-sensor fusion beyond radiation to additional CBRN detection modalities.
The integrated systems were scheduled to be shown at Teledyne FLIR Defense booth #1724 at Modern Day Marine 2026, running April 28–30 at Marine Corps Base Quantico.

Teledyne FLIR Defense Grows Third-Party Payload Integration Program, Adds Emesent Hovermap LiDAR for Unmanned Air, Ground, and Detection Platforms
Teledyne Staff
Teledyne 

Newly certified payload works across drones, robots, and radiation detection systems to speed deployment of GPS-denied mapping and fused CBRN visualizations
QUANTICO, VA, April 28, 2026 — Unveiled at Modern Day Marine 2026, Teledyne FLIR Defense announced the expansion of its Third-Party Payload Integration Program with the certification of Emesent’s Hovermap LiDAR Payload. The agreement will deliver Emesent’s GPS-denied 3D-mapping capabilities across Teledyne FLIR’s unmanned aerial systems (UAS), ground robots, and radiation detection platforms.
The Emesent–Teledyne FLIR combination addresses a GPS-denial gap in air and ground domains where unmanned systems can lose GPS connectivity in common operating areas, such as tunnels, urban structures, and CBRN-contaminated spaces. Using LiDAR-based Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM), Emesent’s Hovermap payload generates accurate 3D maps without GPS or external infrastructure.
On Teledyne FLIR’s SkyRanger® R70 and R80D SkyRaider® UAS platforms, Hovermap enables mapping even in GPS-denied environments. Mounted on the company’s SUGV™ 325 ground robot, Hovermap provides users with persistent 3D awareness of complex enclosed environments streamed in real-time. And integrated with Teledyne FLIR’s MUVE™ R430 radiation detection payload on the SUGV, Hovermap allows operators to see not just where a robot has been, but where radiation levels are elevated, giving CBRN teams an immediate, geo-referenced picture of the threat environment.
“Knowing the shape of a space is powerful. Knowing where the radiation is within that space, in real time, without putting a person in harm’s way, is an operational game-changer,” said Stefan Hrabar, co-founder and chief strategy officer at Emesent. “Our partnership with Teledyne FLIR Defense brings together GPS-denied mapping and radiation detection in a way that directly addresses what CBRN operators need in the field.”
“Teledyne FLIR builds platforms trusted for the most demanding CBRN missions in the world,” said Tung Ng, vice president of Unmanned Systems North America for Teledyne FLIR Defense. “Working with Emesent, we’ll be able to give operators a fused, spatial picture of the threat environment they simply haven’t had access to before.
“This is the direction the whole field is heading in, and we’re delivering it now through certified third-party payloads like Hovermap,” Ng added.
Emesent’s Hovermap represents the firm’s success in utilizing Teledyne FLIR Defense’s open-architecture, partner-enabled development ecosystem. Certified payloads are assessed for mechanical fit, electrical interface, software compatibility, and flight performance, giving customers confidence in mission-tailored capabilities from a growing partner ecosystem.
The partnership also establishes a technical foundation for future capability development. Both companies are actively developing autonomous navigation capabilities and expanding multi-sensor fusion beyond radiation to additional CBRN detection modalities.
The integrated systems will be on display at Teledyne FLIR Defense booth #1724 at Modern Day Marine 2026, April 28–30, at Marine Corps Base Quantico.
# # # #
About Emesent
Emesent is an Australian-headquartered technology company with a U.S. office in Centennial, Colorado, and the maker of the Hovermap autonomous mapping platform. Hovermap uses LiDAR-based SLAM to deliver precise 3D mapping and autonomy in GPS-denied environments. With more than 1,000 systems deployed globally across defence, public safety, mining, and infrastructure sectors, Hovermap is a proven, field-ready platform trusted by military and government operators worldwide. For more information, visit www.emesent.com.
About Teledyne FLIR Defense
Teledyne FLIR Defense has been providing advanced, mission-critical technology and systems for more than 45 years. Our products are on the frontlines of the world’s most pressing military, security and public safety challenges. As a global leader in thermal imaging, we design and build sophisticated surveillance sensors for air, land and maritime use. We develop the most rugged, trusted unmanned air and ground platforms, as well as intelligent sensing devices used to detect chemicals, biological agents, radiation and explosives. At Teledyne FLIR Defense we bring together this expertise to deliver solutions that enable critical decisions and keep our world safe – from any threat, anywhere. To learn more, visit us online or follow @flir and @flir_defense.

Textron Systems And Howe & Howe Debut RIPSAWTM M1 Uncrewed Ground Vehicle (UGV) Technology Demonstrator
Textron Staff
Textron

2026 Modern Day Marine Exposition, Washington D.C. (April 28, 2026) – Textron Systems Corporation, a Textron Inc. (NYSE:TXT) company, and its subsidiary Howe & Howe Inc., today debuted the RIPSAWTM M1 uncrewed ground vehicle (UGV) technology demonstrator at the 2026 Modern Day Marine exposition. The M1 UGV is designed to support U.S. Marine Corps missions of littoral mobility and uncrewed teaming concept of operations (CONOPS).
The M1 technology demonstrator is the next iteration in the company’s Modular Open Systems Approach (MOSA)-designed UGVs, demonstrating the capacity and capability to scale our family of UGVs. The technology demonstrator is the first variant in the M1 line of vehicles, designed as a robotic force multiplier for the Advanced Reconnaissance Vehicle (ARV) and Amphibious Combat Vehicle (ACV) to support Force Design 2030.
The UGV can support target missions including hard kill counter-unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) and reconnaissance, surveillance and target acquisition (RSTA). It can also serve as a loitering munition launch platform. The vehicle is envisioned to extend the reach and lethality of the Marines’ existing systems to keep personnel out of harm’s way and protect heavier, and more expensive, ground vehicles.
“The M1 technology demonstrator shows the art of the possible for how UGVs can support the Marine Corps’ missions,” said Vice President of Programs, Sara Willett. “Along with Howe & Howe, we took our experience in autonomous robotic systems across land, air and sea – the same domains the Marine Corps’ missions live - to develop this system that demonstrates our ability to scale the SWAP up or down, all while maintaining the common robotic core that enables our UGVs to provide exceptional transportability and battlefield agility.”
With decades of uncrewed systems leadership and millions of operational hours across domains, Textron Systems continues to draw on its deep experience to deliver reliable, mission?ready innovation. With a commitment to advancing modular, autonomous technologies that strengthen warfighter effectiveness, Textron Systems continues to shape the future of uncrewed ground operations.
ABOUT HOWE & HOWE 
Howe & Howe is a leader in advanced robotic land vehicles, built and proven for extreme conditions. With a portfolio that includes leading advanced robotic land vehicles, such as the RIPSAW® M5 and the Thermite® robotic firefighter, the company is ready and able to support customers wherever they need it most. For more information, visit www.howeandhowe.com.
 About Textron Systems
Textron Systems is a world leader in uncrewed air, surface and land products, services and support founded on the combined expertise in our family of brands that includes Textron Systems, Howe & Howe, Lycoming, and ATAC. We harness the unlimited power of teamwork to solve incredible problems across seven specialized domains: air, land, sea, propulsion, weapon systems, electronic systems and test, training & simulation. From product development and manufacturing to training, operations and support, we integrate and offer ingenious and advanced solutions to support defense, aerospace, and other customer missions. For more information, visit www.textronsystems.com.   
About Textron Inc. 
Textron Inc. is a multi-industry company that leverages its global network of aircraft, defense, industrial and finance businesses to provide customers with innovative solutions and services. Textron is known around the world for its powerful brands such as Bell, Cessna, Beechcraft, Pipistrel, Jacobsen, Kautex, Lycoming, E-Z-GO, and Textron Systems. For more information, visit: www.textron.com. 
Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking statements which may project revenues or describe strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters; these statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to: the risk related to U.S. Government contracts as described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and our ability to keep pace with competitors in the introduction of new products and upgrades with features and technologies desired by our customers.
MEDIA CONTACT
Textron Systems
Public Relations Team
978-657-2020
publicrelations@textronsystems.com

Textron unveils a smaller, low-cost variant of the Ripsaw family of UGVs
Flavia Camargos Pereira
Shepard Media

Ripsaw M1 has been designed to support the US Marine Corps’ littoral missions by carrying diverse types of payloads and performing multiple missions. Shephard spoke with Textron to find out more.
Textron Systems and its subsidiary Howe & Howe Technologies have added a new variant to the Ripsaw family of uncrewed ground vehicles (UGVs). The M1 is a smaller, low-cost model engineered to support the US Marines Corps’ (USMC) littoral missions. Launched on 28 April at the Modern Day Marine 2026 exposition, the technology demonstrator is on display until 30 April at Marine Corps Base Quantico, Virginia.
The first wheeled platform in the family, it features an open systems architecture with the Ripsaw common robotic core. Its design is intended to enable the vehicle to perform multiple missions while increasing lethality and reducing…

The Navy’s New Acting Secretary Just Threw Out the Old Acquisition Playbook
Caleb Larson
1945.com

Hung Cao, the new Acting Secretary of the Navy, is wasting no time pushing his vision for what the U.S. Navy should be in the wake of conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine. Speaking at the Modern Day Marine Expo, Cao said the Navy needs “alpha males and alpha females,” wants to source munitions from multiple vendors, and intends to overhaul acquisitions through the Trump administration’s Golden Fleet project.
The U.S. Navy Is Making Big Changes in 2026
The recently appointed Acting Secretary of the Navy, Hung Cao, is rapidly implementing his vision of what the Navy should be today in remarks at one of his first public appearances since taking office.
Speaking during the Modern Day Marine Expo last week, Cao touched on Navy modernization, the Golden Fleet, and the kinds of Marines and Sailors he would like to see in uniform, citing his own combat experience in the Navy and his understanding of the task of war-fighting.
Cao has been vocal about who he believes should be in uniform, and previously criticized a sailor who had participated in a drag queen performance. “I don’t need cross-dressers in the military,” Cao stated. “I need alpha males and alpha females.” The Acting Secretary added that instead of “leaf eaters,” the Navy needs “meat eaters.”
Cao’s vision for the Navy was exemplified in an update to the rules for the Navy working uniform and dress blues. “NWU Type III wear is authorized in the Pentagon,” the Navy message from Cao reads. “This change is being made to ensure the Navy is aligned with the uniforms being worn in the Pentagon by other members of the Joint Force and in an effort to continue to instill a warrior ethos in our Sailors.”
Munition Woes
The ongoing conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine have exposed just how precarious the Navy’s mission situation is at the moment, particularly for air defense interceptors as well as Tomahawk cruise missile munitions.
Though highly effective and precise, they are expensive and slow to build. As the American defense industrial base slowly ramps up production of the weapons, the Navy is facing an acute shortfall of both types of munitions, one that, unless addressed, could pose a danger on the horizon.
Cognizant of this pressing problem, Cao asked why the U.S. Navy can’t get creative with weapons sourcing. “Why can’t I buy my munitions from multiple sources? As long as it fits in that tube, as long as it fits on the aircraft, that’s all that matters,” Cao said.
Though defense primes have long been the Pentagon’s go-to suppliers, there may be space for other entrants to meet the Navy’s needs. “Let’s just say I need 1,000 of these missiles. If this guy can give me 100, this other guy can give me 50, and this other guy can give me 200, eventually we’ll get to that 1,000, and not have to go through one single vendor.”
The Pentagon has allocated $70.5 billion for missiles and other munitions for Fiscal Year 2027, nearly a 200 percent increase from the previous year. But the Navy has other big-ticket items that it would like to fund as well, including the upcoming Columbia-class submarines, the upcoming SSN(X)-class attack submarines, and the last of the Virginia-class submarines, too.
Production Bottleneck
So acute is the production squeeze that the Pentagon is mulling foreign designs and foreign shipyards to alleviate production bottlenecks at home.
And the Navy’s desired ships have to find a place within President Trump’s Golden Fleet project, which would like to cement U.S. Navy superiority — but also includes what is, in essence, a vanity project for President Trump, and reportedly part of the reason Cao is now Acting Secretary of the Navy. Cao takes over the role formerly filled by John Phelan, the previous Navy Secretary, who was relieved, reportedly due to his advocacy for the Trump-class battleship, an effort to ingratiate himself with President Trump.
But, Cao said, “the Golden Fleet is not just about ships.” Instead, Cao said, it is “the whole concept of reforming acquisitions and getting ships out there from high, low, right? You can’t use a destroyer for everything. It’s like, you don’t want to use a brain surgeon just to suture up some stitches. I mean, you can use a corpsman for that, right?”
Handshake Agreements
Implementing these changes will require the industry and the Navy to reach agreements on protection — contracts from the Navy and capacity from defense firms that manufacture ships, submarines, and munitions, Cao said. “I’m asking you, our partners in industry, to help us develop the best things out there, because lives that you saved are going to be our sons and daughters.”
“And that’s why I’m here today, to tell industry we need to move forward. The time is now. This is, this is a time for us to do generational changes for our military.”

U.S. Marine Corps to Field MQ-58 Valkyrie Collaborative Combat Aircraft With F-35B By 2029
Erwan Halna du Fretay
Global Defense News, Army Recognition Group

The U.S. Marine Corps is advancing a new class of Collaborative Combat Aircraft based on the MQ-58 Valkyrie to operate alongside crewed jets in contested airspace. This effort aims to expand combat mass, reduce pilot risk, and maintain operational reach against increasingly capable air defenses.
The MQ-58-derived platform is designed to perform missions such as reconnaissance, strike support, and electronic warfare while teaming with manned aircraft. Its planned introduction by 2029 signals a shift toward distributed, semi-autonomous airpower that enhances survivability and strengthens force projection in future high-intensity conflicts.
At the core of the initiative lies the transition from earlier experimental configurations toward a conventional takeoff and landing variant of the Valkyrie. Developed by Kratos, the XQ-58A Valkyrie is a low-cost, runway-independent unmanned air vehicle designed to operate with a high degree of autonomy, typically exceeding 3,000 nautical miles in range while flying at high-subsonic speeds. Its original configuration relied on rocket-assisted takeoff, allowing launch from austere sites without traditional infrastructure, but this approach imposes constraints on turnaround time and reusability.
The program builds on earlier experimentation conducted under the Penetrating Affordable Autonomous Collaborative Killer Portfolio, which relied on rocket-assisted launch configurations and concluded a series of test flights in 2024. According to statements delivered by U.S. Marine Corps officials during the Modern Day Marine conference in April 2026, later reported by The War Zone, the service is now moving toward a conventional takeoff and landing configuration, with prototype deliveries targeted for 2029. This trajectory remains consistent with the Marine Corps Aviation Plan 2026, which identifies the MQ-58 as a priority capability within a broader transition toward distributed and networked air combat operations.
The program falls under the Marine Air-Ground Task Force Uncrewed Expeditionary Tactical Aircraft effort, itself rooted in earlier experimentation conducted through the Penetrating Affordable Autonomous Collaborative Killer Portfolio. That earlier phase relied exclusively on rocket-launched Valkyries, culminating in a series of test flights completed in 2024. More recent trials, including payload integration tests conducted at China Lake, focus on validating mission systems that will define the drone’s operational role.
According to program officials, the first conventional takeoff flight of the MQ-58 is expected during the summer of 2026. The timeline then leads toward the delivery of prototype aircraft to Marine Operational Test and Evaluation Squadron One (VMX-1) at Yuma by 2029. This unit, responsible for developing tactics and validating new aviation capabilities, will play a central role in defining how these drones integrate with the broader force.
Beyond its airframe evolution, the Valkyrie’s modular architecture remains a key feature. The drone includes an internal weapons bay capable of carrying munitions such as the GBU-39 Small Diameter Bomb, as well as external hardpoints for additional payloads. It has also been associated with the integration of the AIM-120 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile, offering beyond-visual-range engagement capability, typically exceeding 100 kilometers depending on launch conditions. In parallel, Kratos is developing the Ragnarok miniature cruise missile, designed to fit within the Valkyrie’s internal bay and provide precision strike options at extended ranges.
Sensor integration is expected to evolve alongside payload development. While detailed configurations remain undisclosed, the MQ-58 is designed to host electronic warfare suites, data links, and potentially distributed sensing capabilities, enabling it to function as both a strike asset and a node within a wider combat network. This aligns with the Marine Corps’ initial focus on electronic warfare missions, where the drone can disrupt adversary radars, communications, and targeting systems while operating at standoff distances.
In operational terms, the introduction of the MQ-58 alters the way Marine aviation approaches contested airspace. Paired with the F-35B Lightning II, a short takeoff and vertical landing fighter equipped with advanced sensor fusion and stealth characteristics, the drone can extend the reach of the formation while absorbing risk in high-threat zones. The F-35B’s AN/APG-81 active electronically scanned array radar and distributed aperture system allow it to detect and track targets over long distances, while the MQ-58 can act as a forward sensor or weapons carrier, relaying data through secure links such as Link 16 or more advanced architectures.
This manned-unmanned teaming concept enables several tactical effects. The drone can conduct suppression of enemy air defenses by drawing fire or delivering electronic attack, thereby preserving the survivability of crewed aircraft. It can also carry additional weapons, effectively increasing the magazine depth of the formation without requiring additional pilots. However, constraints remain. The reliance on runways for recovery, even in the CTOL configuration, introduces vulnerabilities in dispersed operations, and the integration of autonomous decision-making within complex rules of engagement continues to raise technical and doctrinal questions.
Looking beyond the MQ-58, the Marine Corps is exploring alternative designs that could offer shorter takeoff distances or even vertical takeoff capabilities. Concepts such as tail-sitting jet drones or runway-independent systems would align more closely with the expeditionary ethos of Marine aviation, particularly in the Indo-Pacific, where dispersed basing is a central assumption. Industry partners, including General Atomics, Anduril, and Northrop Grumman, are already involved in shaping these potential follow-on systems.
The trajectory of the Marine Corps’ CCA program reflects a wider shift within U.S. and allied air forces toward distributed, networked combat architectures. By integrating relatively low-cost autonomous systems into frontline units, the Corps is testing a model that could redefine force structure, balancing high-end crewed aircraft with scalable uncrewed assets. This approach also resonates internationally, as competitors such as China and Russia invest in similar concepts, potentially accelerating an emerging competition in autonomous air combat.

U.S. Marines Prepare MQ-72C Lakota Autonomous Helicopter for Pacific Combat Resupply
Staff
Global Defense News, Army Recognition Group

The U.S. Marine Corps is preparing to deploy Airbus U.S. Space & Defense’s MQ-72C Lakota Connector, an optionally piloted logistics helicopter, with a Pacific Marine Littoral Regiment for operational testing, shifting the platform from controlled trials into a contested Indo-Pacific environment where it could sustain dispersed frontline units. Announced during Modern Day Marine in Washington, D.C., on April 28, the move signals a push to validate autonomous resupply under real-world conditions where traditional logistics are vulnerable to enemy targeting.
The MQ-72C is designed to operate with or without a pilot, enabling flexible resupply of missiles, sensors, communications gear, and small-unit forces across island chains without exposing crews to risk. This capability directly supports the Marine Corps’ shift toward distributed operations, where low-signature units must remain supplied inside adversary engagement zones, reinforcing a broader trend toward autonomy and survivable logistics in future warfare.
The Aerial Logistics Connector is being developed under Naval Air Systems Command’s Unmanned Logistics Systems-Air portfolio, which is intended to move critical cargo when ground routes or crewed aviation are too exposed to threat, weather, terrain, or competing priorities. NAVAIR links the effort to Distributed Maritime Operations, Littoral Operations in a Contested Environment, and Expeditionary Advanced Base Operations, making the MQ-72C a sustainment tool for the same operational problem addressed across current Marine Corps force design and modernization efforts.
Airbus received a Phase I Other Transaction Authority agreement in May 2024 through the Naval Aviation Systems Consortium to demonstrate an unmanned UH-72 Logistics Connector concept for the Marine Corps. The company’s approach is deliberately evolutionary: rather than designing a new rotorcraft, it adapts the Lakota/H145 airframe, production base, maintenance ecosystem, and avionics pedigree for autonomous cargo missions in austere and contested areas.
The MQ-72C is a medium-class unmanned helicopter with a published maximum takeoff weight of 8,378 lb, a 135-knot cruise speed, an operating altitude up to 20,000 ft, and a range above 350 nautical miles. Airbus lists cargo compatibility with Joint Modular Intermodal Containers and ordnance containers, which is central to its battlefield value: the aircraft is not merely moving rations or batteries, but potentially repositioning precision missiles, rockets, ammunition, communications equipment, and repair modules between dispersed firing units.
The armament question is therefore best understood in two layers. In the current Marine Corps Aerial Logistics Connector role, no fixed attack fit has been announced; the immediate combat effect comes from carrying ordnance as cargo to keep anti-ship missile, air-defense, and reconnaissance forces lethal. However, the UH-72B family from which the MQ-72C is derived is advertised by Airbus as weapon-system capable with options including 20 mm cannon, .50 caliber machine guns, 2.75-inch folding-fin aerial rockets, laser-guided rockets, Hellfire/JAGM missiles, aircraft survivability equipment, ballistic protection, EO/IR sensors, C4I communications, and helmet-mounted sight/display equipment.
Those weapon options should not be confused with the Marine Corps’ initial ALC requirement, but they show why the Lakota Connector could grow beyond simple cargo carriage. A helicopter with open mission architecture, available electrical power, and established hardpoint or sensor integration pathways could later support launched effects, armed escort packages, or rapid reconfiguration for casualty evacuation and command relay missions, provided the Corps accepts the cost, certification, and survivability trade-offs.
The UH-72B baseline contributes several features that are tactically relevant for unmanned logistics. The Fenestron shrouded tail rotor improves ground safety around small landing zones, the five-bladed main rotor increases lift efficiency and reduces maintenance burden, the Arriel 2E engines with dual FADEC improve power management, and the Helionix avionics suite with four-axis autopilot provides a strong foundation for computer-directed flight. These features matter when an unmanned helicopter must land near Marines at night, in confined terrain, or under intermittent communications.
Autonomy is now the decisive development area. In August 2025, an H145 test aircraft flew under Shield AI’s Hivemind software in cooperation with Airbus Helionix, executing automated takeoff, landing, and other test points without pilot input. In April 2026, Airbus, Shield AI, L3Harris, and Parry Labs completed a fourth autonomous flight test in Grand Prairie, Texas, integrating all four companies’ technologies into one aircraft and demonstrating autonomous landing-zone evaluation, obstacle detection, and rerouting to an alternate site.
For Marine commanders, that landing-zone autonomy is not a laboratory detail; it is the difference between a useful unmanned helicopter and an aircraft that still requires extensive human direction at the most dangerous point of the mission. Distributed units may operate from roads, beaches, clearings, or temporary expeditionary sites with poor markings and unpredictable clutter. If the aircraft can identify obstacles, assess a landing point, and divert without constant operator control, it reduces radio traffic, operator workload, and exposure time.
The 2027 Pacific experiment will also clarify how ALC differs from smaller Marine unmanned logistics efforts. NAVAIR’s TRV-150 Tactical Resupply UAS carries up to 120 lb over short tactical distances, while MARV-EL is described as a middle-weight autonomous logistics asset for ground-force sustainment. The MQ-72C sits above those systems as a general-support aviation asset for the Marine Air-Ground Task Force, giving commanders a longer-range, higher-capacity aerial connector for distributed maritime operations.
The strategic impact is clear: in the Western Pacific, logistics is a weapons-system enabler. A Marine Littoral Regiment armed with anti-ship missiles, sensors, air-defense weapons, and electronic warfare equipment can only influence a maritime fight if it can remain supplied while dispersed, hidden, and moving. The MQ-72C gives the Corps a way to push ordnance and mission-critical cargo without committing crewed helicopters into every high-risk resupply lane.
If the Pacific test proves reliable, the Lakota Connector could become a key bridge between today’s manned rotary-wing logistics fleet and a future force built around autonomous sustainment at scale. It would not replace CH-53K heavy lift or MV-22 tiltrotor reach, but it could absorb dangerous, repetitive, medium-load missions that preserve crewed aircraft for assault support, recovery, and crisis response. For the Marine Corps, that is not simply a logistics improvement; it is a direct contribution to deterrence, endurance, and combat credibility inside the first island chain.

U.S. Military Eyes Armed UGV With 30mm Cannon And Coyote Stinger Missiles For Counter Drone Warfare
Evan Lerouvillois
Global Defense News, Army Recognition Group

AM General has unveiled a next-generation unmanned ground vehicle armed with a remote turret, transforming an autonomous logistics truck into a combat-capable system. This shift matters because it enables Marines to move supplies, scout, and defend against aerial threats without exposing personnel in contested environments.
The vehicle integrates a Moog RIwP turret onto a high-performance robotic truck, adding firepower and short-range air defense to autonomous mobility. It reflects a broader push toward combining logistics, protection, and autonomy to support dispersed Marine operations and counter drone threats on future battlefields.
The vehicle shown in Washington is not simply an unmanned cargo carrier. The UGV demonstrator is already undergoing testing ahead of a U.S. Army request for proposal expected later in 2026, giving the display immediate procurement relevance beyond the exhibition floor.
Its industrial team explains the concept. AM General provides the tactical vehicle base and manufacturing depth, Carnegie Robotics contributes autonomy software and modular robotic hardware, Textron Systems supplies the hardware and software control layer, and Moog adds the armed mission package.
The armament is the most important development. Moog’s MR SLED package is built around the RIwP remote turret, already associated with the U.S. Army’s SGT Stout short-range air defense vehicle and mobile counter-UAS programs, giving the AM General UGV a credible path into air defense and counter-drone roles rather than limiting it to logistics.
RIwP is designed to accept different guns, missiles, sights, and sensors. Moog lists 30 mm gun options with 115 ready rounds, 7.62 mm or .50 caliber machine guns, IFF integration, and missile effectors, including Stinger, Coyote, APKWS, Hellfire, and Javelin, allowing commanders to tailor the turret for counter-UAS, air defense, anti-armor, or escort missions.
For Marines, that flexibility has tactical weight. A 30 mm cannon with programmable or proximity-fuzed ammunition can engage small unmanned aerial systems at lower cost per shot than missile-only defense, while Stinger-class missiles give the vehicle reach against helicopters and low-flying aircraft. The same turret can also support convoy overwatch, base security, or route reconnaissance with stabilized optics and remote fire control.
Moog’s published data also point to a more survivable weapon architecture. The turret family supports direct radar and command-and-control integration, fiber-optic and Ethernet links, remote control, hunter-killer engagement logic, slew-to-cue functions, programmable airburst or proximity rounds, and non-line-of-sight tracking.
This matters because the UGV can become a forward sensor and shooter without placing a crew inside the threat envelope. In a Marine littoral regiment or distributed expeditionary unit, it could sit near a logistics node, expeditionary advanced base, or firing position and provide local warning and immediate defeat options against small drones probing for artillery targets.
The display vehicle also reflects a broader shift in how tactical mobility is being armed. The UGV’s original value is cargo movement, casualty extraction, and mission support, but the turreted configuration adds a protective layer for the very routes and supply points that autonomous vehicles are meant to serve. That turns mobility into a combat function rather than a rear-area service.
AM General’s powertrain choices reinforce that approach. The company says the vehicle uses a new turbocharged 6.5-liter V8 engine producing 250 hp and more than 550 lb-ft of torque through common-rail direct injection, with fuel-flexible performance and advanced cooling for military duty cycles.
That engine is significant because AM General intends it to support future light tactical vehicles, including the evolving HUMVEE family. For forces that already operate large numbers of HMMWVs, shared propulsion technology could simplify sustainment, spares, training, and depot support while improving torque for off-road mobility and payload growth.
AM General’s heritage gives this effort unusual credibility. The company won the initial U.S. Army contract in 1983 to produce 55,000 Humvees over five years, and AM General states that more than 280,000 Humvees had been produced by 2012.
Ukraine has shown why that lineage still matters. Ukraine operates an estimated 6,000 Humvees across multiple armed forces branches and has used them for logistics, evacuation, fire support, and command-and-control missions under intense combat conditions.
That operational record is relevant to AM General’s UGV because the same battlefield trends are driving the new vehicle: drone surveillance, artillery exposure, mine threats, and the need to move supplies without predictable manned convoys. The lesson from Ukraine is that simple, repairable, adaptable vehicles remain valuable even when the battlefield becomes more sensor-dense and lethal.
For the Marine Corps, the UGV aligns with Force Design priorities. The service describes its modernization effort as focused on a lethal, resilient naval expeditionary force able to fight across domains in contested environments, and Marine public messaging has highlighted investments in unmanned systems, reconnaissance, resilient networks, and precision fires.
The tactical employment options are clear. A Marine unit could use the AM General UGV to move ammunition, batteries, water, spare parts, or small unmanned systems from a landing zone to a concealed position, then reconfigure it with an armed mission package for local defense. This type of compact 30 mm and missile mix directly addresses the short-range drone and helicopter threat.
The vehicle could also support reconnaissance by moving sensors ahead of dismounted Marines or escorting manned tactical vehicles through exposed routes. In a high-risk resupply mission, autonomy reduces the number of Marines tied to convoy driving, while remote weapons control allows the UGV to suppress drones, light vehicles, or enemy observation teams without risking a crew.
The main challenge will be command discipline and cost. Armed unmanned ground vehicles require reliable communications, cyber protection, clear rules for weapons release, and enough affordability to justify deployment near the forward edge. In heavily contested electromagnetic environments, autonomy must support the mission without creating dependence on fragile links.
AM General’s Modern Day Marine display, therefore, represents more than a new unmanned vehicle. It signals a convergence of tactical mobility, robotic sustainment, and short-range air defense at a time when Marines need smaller, dispersed units to survive under drone observation and precision fires. The UGV points toward a battlefield where logistics vehicles, sensors, and weapons increasingly merge into one survivable combat network.

USMC Advances Multi-Domain Drone Strategy Through 2040
Staff
Pravda News

USMC Advances Multi-Domain Drone Strategy Through 2040
The Marine Corps plans operational testing of its MUX TACAIR collaborative combat aircraft by 2029, with Northrop Grumman integrating Kratos XQ-58 Valkyrie drones. Concurrent programs include Group 3 UAS for organic ISR, autonomous logistics platforms ALC and MARV-EL for expeditionary resupply, and the Future Attack Strike program to replace UH-1 helicopters with optionally-piloted multi-role aircraft by 2040.
Officials compare the transformation to introducing rotary-wing aviation in the 1950s, according to statements at Modern Day Marine. The shift reflects force design requirements for distributed Pacific operations under contested conditions.

V-22 joint program office continues modernization upgrades, GAO recommendations nearly resolved
Abby Shepherd
Inside Defense

As production of the V-22 Osprey winds down and flight restrictions begin to lift for some fleets following critical accidents, the Marine Corps is modernizing the aircraft and continuing to improve gearboxes and other critical components, an official said at Modern Day Marine this week.
The service has also nearly resolved all the recommendations made by the Government Accountability Office regarding V-22 safety concerns, joint office program manager Col. Robert Hurst said Wednesday.
In December, GAO found materiel failure of the airframe and engine components, coupled with human error, were to blame for the most serious incidents. Class A and B accidents in the Osprey program increased in fiscal years 2023 and 2024, and accidents between FY-22 and FY-24 resulted in the deaths of 20 service members.
The final GAO recommendation will be resolved following a Naval Air Training and Operating Procedures Standardization event in May, Hurst said.
“I think it’s important to recognize, or at least acknowledge, that the comprehensive view and the GAO, while making the V-22 stronger, didn't necessarily change anything that we were already doing,” he added. “We've been managing risk in the V-22 -- it's not as well known -- since 2006, we've eliminated 29 catastrophic risks.”
Several improvements to Ospreys have been made, including an input quill redesign and the introduction of triple-melt steel gearboxes to reduce hard-clutch engagements.
Defense company Bell has delivered new gearboxes at a rate of 12 a month and will keep this pace through the rest of the retrofit, Hurst said. Over $39 million will fund gearbox procurement, according to the Pentagon’s budget reconciliation spending plan.







